# Russia Issues New Ultimatum — Ukraine Responds — NATO

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HM2HEoOWowo
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 3783 词

---

Hello my dear friends, you're on the military summary channel and today we will discuss the situation in the world on the 31st of March of 2026. Today we have a lots of very interesting updates. So let's start and first we're going to talk about Ukraine. We received a lots of very interesting updates. Then we will discuss the situation with the NATO what is happening here and in the final part of the video we will discuss the situation in the Persian Gulf. So let's start and let's start with Ukraine. During the previous 24 48 hours, the Ukrainians launched several waves of attacks deep inside of the church of Russia. One of the waves was moving in the northern direction. The Ukrainians once again were trying to attack the Liningrad region. I would like to remind you that during the previous days, the Ukrainians attacked the city of Tuluga and its infrastructure, oil infrastructure. Furthermore, the Ukrainians were attacking the city of Primors. But as for the previous 24 hours, we haven't received anything that can confirm that the Ukrainians during this wave attack managed to deal damage to this object, which means that most likely the Russians managed to repel this attack. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that just yesterday we discussed that the Ukrainians were attacking in the direction of the city of Rastoandon and we received lots of videos from the city of Toan Rock where we can see the battle, the air defense battle between the Russian air defense forces and the Ukrainian missiles and drones that were heading towards the city where the Russian chief of the general staff is located. So, and those were two biggest waves of attacks that the Russians managed to repel. The Ukrainians used hundreds of drones and we could say somewhere by the middle of the 31st of March of 2026 that the Russians showed more or less uh big results, good results of their air defense forces. But uh somewhere at 3 or 4:00 p.m. of the 31st of March of 2026, we began receiving updates from the church of the central part of Russia from the area of the city by the name of Nishnik Kamsk. As you can see, we have a lots of icons in this area. We have this oil refinery, probably the biggest oil refinery through the entire church of the Russian Federation. And this object of energy infrastructure of a critical infrastructure of the Russian Federation was hit and damaged significantly. So this is probably the first video that was published from this area right after explosions or heat took place. Here we can see a huge smoke over this oil refinery. at from this angle very difficult to understand what exactly happened and uh what's exactly attacked this or it's something like results of uh accidents on the church of this refinery. Later we received this picture the same episode but from another angle. So here we can see once again the same smoke over this object of energy infrastructure but from this angle we can see we can clearly see fire that was taking place on the tra of this object of energy infrastructure and then we start receiving hundreds of videos hundreds of updates on the matter lots of explosions people and civilians of the settlement of Nishna comes were making videos from different angles trying to show and to understand what was happening with their oil refinery. So the oil refinery was damaged. Of course, we need to wait for additional day or two before we get satellite pictures to understand uh what happened and what kind of damage uh either the Ukrainians or a third party managed to deal to this object of energy infrastructure. But uh Russian official sources stated that uh a lots of people were injured as a result of this situation and there were casualties among civilians. And now we're moving to the most important thing. We are going to talk about Easter ceasefire. I would like to remind you that just yesterday the president of Ukraine proposed an Easter truth right before this situation in comments happened. This year, believers of the Russian Orthodox Church and the Orthodox Church of Ukraine celebrate the main church holy on the same day, April 12th, and Zilinskis proposed an Easter truth, but as of the end of the 31st of March of 2026, we received several answers from the Kremlin. So the Russians are saying that so the Kremlin did not see a clear initiative in Zilinski's words words about the Eastern truth. The Ukrainian president must take responsibility and make a decision for Russia to move not toward a truth but toward peace later. This decision will have to be made at a higher cost. That was stated by the spokesman of the Kremlin. Furthermore, he stated that it is clear that the KEF regime desperately needs truth and any truth because the dynamics at the front indicates that Russian troops are advancing along the entire front line. That was also emphasized by a spokesperson of the Kremlin Piskov. Another important thing is that today the president of Ukraine Zilinski made a very interesting statement on this matter. He said that Moscow has gi given KF two months to withdraw Ukrainian forces from Donbas otherwise the terms of peace agreement will change. Zilinski stated. So most likely all these statements behind the scenes behind the doors were made yesterday on the 30th of March of 2026. And most likely yesterday the Russians issued this ultimatum to K. And most likely this attack in the direction of this nikam school refinery was something like an answer to the Russians on their ultimatum that they issued a day ago which means that most likely in two months a lot of things will change. But furthermore, I would like to remind you that we are entering uh April uh of 2026, which means that this is a third month of 3 months mobilization martial law that is currently taking place on the 23 Ukraine. And the current martial law and mobilization will end at the beginning of May of 2026. So basically in a month and according to the Russian ultimatum, the Russian ultimatum expires in the end of May. So which means that somewhere at the beginning of June of 2026, the Russians will change their demands regarding uh the peaceful settlement of the conflict on the TH of Ukraine. So very interesting what the Russians are going to change and from the other side we need to understand that most likely the Russians are planning during the next two months to improve their position significantly. Either the Russians are planning to establish complete control over the Detsk region or the Russians are planning to improve their position significantly in the Zaparo region. We will understand within the next two months. Now let's discuss the situation on the ground. During the previous 24 hours, we received a lots of very interesting updates and the most important are coming from the area of the Schuma region. As we discussed during the previous video, the Russians as a results of offensive operation managed to improve their position significantly in the area of Malakmachka. This information was reported by the group of forces north in the by the minister of defense of the Russian Federation. Basically, the Russians according to this report answered the second defense layer of the city of Sumi. And now the Russians will continue infiltration of process further in the southern direction with the purpose to establish a huge part of the sumu forest which is the biggest forest along the line of combat contact. So this is the territory of a very big sumu of the very big sumu forest which is located basically along the border with the Russian Federation and with breakthrough in the area of Mount Takmachka. We see that the Russians managed to answer this biggest sumo forest from the northwest and they will try to keep advancing further in the southern direction because the Russians understand that this sumo forest can protect Russians uh from FP with drone attacks and so on and obviously the Russians would be able to keep advancing further in the southern direction until they get the situ itself. So this is a very important situation. Furthermore, during the previous day, we received another video, this time published from the area of Yakovka. In this video, we could see how Ukrainians were attacking this tree line. So, based on this video, we have also adjusted the map. And we can see that most likely the Russians began advancing not just in the area of the Schuma forest from the southwest, but also from the southeast. And the Russians are trying to establish complete control first over the settlement of Satk and over this huge forest around the village itself. Now let's talk about the coup's direction. During the previous far we received a lots of updates. First of all, the Russians during the previous days were attacking and the city of Chiguv, probably trying to destroy temporary deployment points of the armed force to Ukraine and not allowed Ukrainians to redeploy additional forces further in the direction of the of Kensk. If you remember during the previous days, we were talking a lot about the situation in this area. The Russians managed to improve their position significantly to the east of the river skull by capturing the settlements of Kafsharavka Nova Sinova. Today we received additional changes on the ground in the northwestern parts of the city of Kinsk and we see that the map has been adjusted significantly since the 27th of March of 2026. So this is the end of the 28th. This is the end of the 29th of March. This is the end of the 13th. This is the 31st. So we are we received during the previous three days three videos that confirm that the Russians are keeping advancing in the northwestern parts of the city of Kinsk and it seems that the Russians have launched their final offensive operation in this area with the purpose to establish complete control over the city of Kinsk and the most important over its western part. So this is probably already a fifth or the sixth battle of the shi of kinsk since the beginning of the special military operation. Now let's move further. As for the shi of constant guys for the shich of slavinsk during the previous 24 hours we haven't received many updates just several videos from the t of the shich of slavinsk itself. In this video, we can see how the Russians were bombing the central part of the settlement with the Viation and the Russians have started bombing the city of Slavin significantly probably several days, several weeks ago when most likely the Russians realized that the Ukrainians are not going to withdraw their troops from this area which means that the Russians would be forced to establish control over this part of Don with military means and then according to the latest ultimatum, the Russians are going to change their demands. As for the situation on the ground, we have just lots of icons, updates, explosions. The Russians are trying to push the Ukraine positions, but without changes on the ground. As for the Constantino direction, right before we started making this video, we received a video that uh confirms additional progress on the ground from the Russian side. We will discuss this video during the next updates, but during the next update, most likely we will adjust the southwestern parts of the shi of Constantin significantly in the Russian favor. As for the debraia direction, during the previous 24 hours, we received small changes on the ground uh to the south of the settlement of Shvchianka. The Russians improved their positions along the Olympics street and the Russians are keeping advancing further in the northern direction towards the settlements of shienkas vans and further in the direction of the sh of draolia. As of now the Russians are still very far from the shich of draolia but the Russians are trying to improve their positions first of all to the south in the settlement and to the southwest of the settlement. First the Russians it seems are tasked to establish complete control over these territories between the settlements of nogaria yipska and no Alexandraka and only then the Russians will try to advance further in the northern direction with the purpose to attack the city of the braolia at least from several directions. As for the Zaparo direction, during the previous 24 hours, we haven't received anything special. The only probably interesting thing is the statement that was made by the group of forces east. Today, the Russians stated that the after the fall of the settlement of Lukanovska Lugavs. The Russians were keeping advancing in the northern direction towards the villages of Charna and Gula. If you remember, we discussed the situation yesterday and today the group of forces east confirmed this update. The Russians of the group of forces east are trying to attack these two villages of Chariv and Gula from the southwest and from the west trying to take these villages and pins. In coming days most likely the map in this area would be adjusted as of the conflict on the church of Ukraine. We have color covered most of the updates. Now let's talk about the situation with NATO. It seems that the NATO and the NATO organization is collapsing and it seems that after the end of the conflict on the church of the Middle East, the United States of America will quit this organization. During the previous day, we received a lots of very interesting updates about the situation in this area. It's disappointing to see that in a time of need for the United States, we have countries like Spain, a NATO member that we are pledged to defend, denying us the use uh of their airspace and bragging about it. Another important thing, countries restricting US military flights to to Iran, war, Switzerland, Spain, Italy, and France. Another important thing, all of those countries that can't get jet fuel because of this trade of hormones like the United Kingdom which refuse to get involved in the decap decapitation of van. I have a suggestion for you. Number one, buy from the United States. We have plenty. And number two, build your build up some delayed courage. Go to the straight and just take it. You'll have to start learning how to fight for yourself. The United States of America won't be there for to help you anymore. Just you like you weren't there for us. Iran has been essentially decimated. The hard part is done. Get your own oil. President Donald Trump. Another important statement. If NATO is just about us defending Europe, if they're attacked, but then denying us basic rights, basic rights when we need them. That's not a very good arrangement. So as you can see according to these statements the United States of America are very disappointed with the European Union. I would like to reminded and as we discussed just a minute ago at least four states of the European Union and the NATO uh restricted US military flights due to Iran war. At least three states and Switzerland. We are talking about France. We are talking about Spain and we are talking about Italy. As for France, the president of the United States of America made a very interesting statement. The country of France wouldn't let planes headed to Israel loaded up with military supplies fly over French territory. France have has been very unhelpful with respect to the bacher of Iran who has been successfully eliminated. The United States of America will remember will remember this. So this is uh France and they they didn't allowed the United States of America to use their airspace to bring cargos and arms on the territory through Middle East. The first state that did this was the state of Spain. Several days ago they stated that Spain has closed its airspace to American planes involved in strikes from Iran. According to Defense Minister Margarita Robles, we do not allow the use of military bases or the use of airspace for actions related to the war in Iran, she said to journalist in Madrid. The decision is part of the Spanish government's already adapted decision not to participate in or facilitate a war that was started um unilaterally and in violation of international law. Right after Spain, Italy joined to this let's say uh coalition and they also closed the airspace for the United States of America. Italy following Spain has banned US aircraft involved in the conflict with Iran from using its military bases. But these are not the only things that happened with the United States of America and that are happening right now with the NATO organization. Later we received another very interesting statement made uh that came from Poland. The US requested their Patriot systems back from Poland but where he refused there as well. Our Patriot batteries and their arments serve to protect Polish airspace and NATO's eastern flank. That was stated that by the Polish defense minister. So we see that something like a strike something like a protest of the NATO countries and European countries against the United States of America. The US has asked Poland to send one of its patriot missile battalious to the Middle East but Warso say no says no. And this is the the beginning of collapse of the NATO organization. We see that the United States of America is hesitating. We see that the United States of America wants to finish maybe just Donald Trump but he wants to finish the conflict of the territory of the Middle East and he needs support of allies but he don't see but he doesn't see the support from the European countries and the thing is that it seems that the European countries and the NATO countries decided to use this situation against the United States of America and to make a very tricky situation. I would like to remind you that at the beginning of the conflict on the charity of the Middle East, the Iranians said that everybody can use the Persian Gulf on the straight of Hormos and to purchase oil and to export and to import or buy to move oil through this territory only in case if they don't support the United States, America and Israel. So the United States of America uh was trying to convince the European countries that the only way how they can get cheap oil and cheap gas from the territory of the Middle East is to support the United States of America to bring their forces in this region and together to unblock the straight of Hormus and to establish complete control over this territory. But now we see that the European countries decided to use another approach. they decided to um probably to say that they don't support the uh the uh operation epic fury that was started by the United States of America and it seems that European countries like Spain, France, Switzerland and Italy believe that this will help them to uh to have access and to be allowed to use the straight of Hormus for oil purchases purposes. So, and this is something that doesn't fit the understanding of the president of the United States of America of the current situation. Meanwhile, the parties continue bombing and attacking each other. Uh the sources saying that everything is ready for the ground operation, but yet this ground operation hasn't started yet. We continue receiving updates that the Iranians were bombing the United Arab Emirates during the previous 24 hours. We continue receiving updates about crisis about more vessels and tankers destroyed in the area of the Persian Gulf and it seems that there is no end to the situation. Furthermore, we see that the United the United Arab Emirates collapses. Uh today we received a report that uh the war in Iran has erased 120 billions from dollars from United Arab Emirates stock markets in weeks. uh the country states is uh moving further uh and deeper into the economical crisis and of course we're not talking about the states of Bahrain and Qatar who which most likely has more problems than the United States uh or United Arab Emirates or any other state in this region. Another important thing is that the Israelians continue their buffer zone operation in the southern parts of Lebanon. According to information we have during the previous days, the uh Israelian defense forces managed to improve their position significantly and to force the pro-Iranian forces fur in the northern direction. According to information we have, Israel reached Latania River and continued to expansion the expansion of the buffer zone. Several sources stated that uh the war in the Middle East and uh the actions of the coalition against Iran will continue until uh the Israelians uh finish finish the barer zone operation and until they establish complete control over the territory to the south of the river by the name of Lethania. As you can see and according to the current map, they're just at the beginning of this pass. So which means that most likely it will take from two to maybe even 8 weeks before the Israelians will be able to establish this buffer zone and maybe then uh the United States of America will quit this conflict in the Middle East and will leave the Iranians one-on-one with the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain and Kuwait. Furthermore, we received a report that during the previous 24 hours, the coalition attacked the ammo depot in the area of the sh of Isvahan. The US carried out a nighttime strike on the major Iranian ammunition depot in Isvahan using bunker buster bombs weighing about 900 kilos. Uh, powerful secondary explosions were captured on the video and Trump also shared the footage. So, this is the same video but from another angle. Then we have fire anomalies in this area. And that's it for today. The military with summary channel reminds we condom any violence in the world. Thank you for watching. Subscribe to my channel. Push your likes. Join my patre and have a good day. Bye-bye.