# YouTube Video Ws69GDqlDV4

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ws69GDqlDV4
**字数：** 9164 词

---

Some civil wars will decide who gets to [clears throat] rule a nation. Other civil wars will decide whether a nation will survive at all. Ever since Myammar's military government seized power in a coup in 2021, the nation has been torn apart by a brutal civil war. After nearly 5 years of conflict, the verified death toll is creeping up on 100,000 people with well over 3 million displaced and nearly 30 million trying to survive in a combat zone. But over those five painful years, the complexion of the war has shifted dramatically. What was once an intrepid fight for freedom waged by ordinary people in a brilliant patchwork of allied rebel groups is now a dark and grinding stalemate. Battles are now decided by gruesome human wave tactics. The skies are now dominated by the high-pitched wine of drones and civilians, no matter where they are, must live in fear from above. After almost 5 years [music] of combat, Myammar civil war is becoming the invasion of Ukraine fought in the jungles, the highlands, and the monsoons. But [music] now in the early days of 2026, it's becoming clear that Manmar civil war isn't just becoming more brutal. It's becoming unwinable. The military government has failed to gain legitimacy, international support, or even the help of its most important backer. The rebel alliance is fracturing, splitting its focus, running low on resources, and still waiting for someone somewhere across the world to take notice. Territory is still changing hands, but lives are being snuffed out in exchange for gains of less and less each week. The war is still raging. The lines of control are still changing, but Myanmar's grim reality is becoming harder and harder to overlook. There's a real and growing chance that neither side can win this war. And if they can't, then Myanmar itself is at risk of destruction. As we launch into the specifics of the Myanmar Civil War, we've got to start with a bit of background. Because although this war doesn't get nearly as much attention as the wars in Ukraine, Gaza, or even Sudan, it's among the truly major conflicts of the 2020s. Now, as we point out each time we cover a particular conflict, the nation of Myanmar has never truly been at peace. The country [music] is one of the most diverse on Earth in a place where over a 100 ethnic militias have long ruled over the territory that makes up the homelands of their respective peoples. At any given time, at least a couple of those militias could be expected to be fighting the forces of Myanmar's central government. And speaking of the central government, Myanmar has had to endure a long and complex relationship with its own military, the Tatmador. From 1962 through to 2011, Marmma was dominated by military dictatorship, and the Tatmador has long had a reputation for abuses of power, repression of its people, and widespread corruption at the head of the country. For most of the 2010s, Mama was ruled by a civilian government. And starting in 2016, the nation was led by its state councelor and deacto head of government, Angsuki. But that all changed in early 2021 when after a highly contentious election, the Tatore overthrew the civilian government and started to crack down on public demonstrations against its decision. In hindsight, that was a major misstep by the Tamador government under the control of the country's current dictator, senior general and president Ming Hang. While the Tamador was able to secure control of Myanmar's biggest cities, it drove many tens of thousands of young people into the countryside where they organized the pro-democracy People's Defense Force to oppose the military government. Once they reached Myanmar's vast rural district, they joined forces with the country's many ethnic militias who had the weapons, the knowhow, and the will to return to war against the new dictatorship. Over the following several years, the United National Resistance was able to capture a massive share of Myammar's territory, with some estimates suggesting that by the low point, the Tamador could exert direct control over less than a quarter of Myammar's total land area. Thousands upon thousands of Tatore soldiers chose to surrender to the rebels rather than fight. Two major regional command centers fell to rebel control, and by the start of 2025, victory seemed to be within grasp. But that isn't what happened. Instead, after pushing the Tatore out of hundreds of outposts, dozens of towns and small bases, and even a handful of major encampments, the rebels had pushed them back into a small enough zone of territory that the military could concentrate its forces in a more unified defense. Standing guard around Myanmar's three biggest cities, Yangon, Manderlay, and the capital city of Napador. The Tatore was simply too wellarmed. His forces had been on the retreat against asymmetric guerilla style rebel warfare in the countryside where tanks and artillery were [music] liabilities that risked being overwhelmed and there were too few soldiers to dedicate to too many combat zones at once. But on their own stronghold territory, the Tamador were far stronger and that left the rebel alliance with few [music] options. Some of its most powerful fighting forces agreed to temporary ceasefires with the government to get a reprieve or consolidate control over their own territory, while others were forced to withdraw from areas they had already captured, largely because of pressure from China to get away from infrastructural and energy projects that China had been heavily invested in. In March 2025, the country was ravaged by a deadly earthquake with over 5,500 people known to have been killed and with some of the hardest hit areas being rebel held territory. Between censorship and lack of transparency on the real death toll and the Tatmador's efforts to stand in the way of humanitarian aid flowing to the resistance zones, the earthquake forced many of the ethnic militias to rethink their priorities, [music] stretching their limited resources as well as they could to allow for disaster relief. The Tamador's decision to continue air strike operations against civilian targets in the immediate aftermath of the earthquake certainly didn't help. And while local rebel governments tried to take advantage of the earthquake to do a bit of state building for international audiences, that took their focus even further off the war. And that brings us to the modern day where we'll keep our focus for the rest of this episode. Although, if you'd like more of a history of the Myammar conflict, we did publish a deep dive in 2025 before the earthquake hit. But it's the changes that came after the earthquake that we've really got to focus on because this is where the war shifted into the dynamic that we're seeing now. While it wouldn't be accurate to call the war a stalemate in any traditional sense where we'd imagine that the fighting had died down and both sides were sort of staring at each other while they wait for someone to act first, we can describe Myanmar as an active stalemate. For a comparison case, we need only look so far as Ukraine, where thousands of combatants are still killed or wounded each week, and territory is still changing hands very slowly. But neither side has the ability to strike a decisive blow. In some areas, like the western zones held by ethnic armies like the Iraq and the Chin, there just isn't much more to capture in the areas they're actually interested in. While in other parts of the country, insurgent groups have been pressured by China to yield cities and bases back to the Tapador without a fight after highly costly battles. Some ethnic militias have decided to leave ceasefires in place with the Tapador longer than their peers on the battlefield had expected, and still others are simply too low on munitions, fighters, supplies, or all three. So, while it's not all that accurate to say that either side has any real momentum right now, it's the Tamador that's been at least attempting to make offensive progress. Most importantly, the Tamador has started to reclaim territory and shore up its defenses outside Manderlay, taking pressure off the major city that had seemed [music] to be most vulnerable and doing Beijing's bidding by protecting the Chinese elite that's run most of the city's economy for the last several decades. In the north, the Tapodoras engaged the ethnic catch-in in the battle of Balmo for over a year in a long siege that's demanded immense resources and consistent focus from the rebels. Closer to Myammar central heartland, the Tatore captured the important town of Kiakme after a costly offensive with the primary militia that was defending the town, the TNLA, forced to sign a ceasefire with the government under pressure and give up control of other towns as well. Then the Tapodor continued its push into the town of Heisport, regaining full control over a critical road into China. In the west, the Tapmodor has been able to sustain a counteroffensive against the powerful Iraq army, splitting their forces between the besieged Tatmador controlled city of Sitway and another Tatapador thrust on the edge of Iraq territory. That's meant that the Iraq, one of the most fearsome rebel fighting forces in the country, has been unable to dedicate its strength to operations elsewhere. against the eastern century. The Tatore recaptured the town of Damoso last August and has parlayed its local momentum into a broader push. Just as important as the Hunter's limited recapture of territory are the Hunter's changing tactics. The Tamador has always prioritized air strikes in this conflict, raining down heavy munitions while making little if any distinction between military and civilian targets. But while those air strikes were always an effective terror tactic, they were much more spread out when the Hunter was at its weakest, used as a nagging threat in the rebels backlines to keep morale low and keep fear high. Now though, [music] the Tamador's shifting tactics and its ability to split its attention between fewer and fewer distinct frontline zones have led its leadership to order the concentration of air power much more often. The Tabodor's counteroffensives have been defined by relentless bombings from jets backed up with increasingly heavy use of cheap mass-produced FPV drones for reconnaissance, small strikes, and kamicazi attacks. Clearly, the Tatore has studied the war in Ukraine, pairing those FPV drones with artillery bombardments in a tactical approach that's unusual for low tech, humid Myanmar, but that wouldn't look out of place in the city of Prosk. Of course, the Tatador does add a bit of its own flavor to its relentless aerial operations. Its troops have taken to using slow, easy to operate motorized paragliders, which they used to circle over battlefields and literally drop small bombs whenever they like. These are tactics that insurgents struggle to counter, let alone match, and they've played a key role in forcing the rebels to relinquish control over captured territory in order to avoid heavy losses. Simultaneously, the Tatmador has been able to shore up its numbers, its morale, and its support from abroad. While military morale was in the toilet during the great rebel push of 2023 and 2024, that was largely due to the predicament faced by ordinary Tatador soldiers during that time. In this phase of the war, units were stuck at small, far-flung outposts where they were constantly at risk of being overrun and then forced into retreats where they were relentlessly harassed, chased out of their rear defensive positions, and made to witness the mass surrender of many of their own comrades. But once the front stabilized and Tatore troops could set their backs against the strength of Myar's three great cities, their situation was no longer helpless. Then their ranks swelled with some 60,000 conscripts who despite their inexperience have been able to turn the tide through a combination of sheer numbers, gradual training into combat shape, and their ability to hold rear territory and fill non-combat roles. In that latter role, they've been especially important, relieving the pressure so that experienced troops could return to the front line. With a flood of new conscripts, Tatmador tactics shifted further with the military now choosing to prioritize meatwave assaults at times. Again, borrowing lessons from Russia's conduct in Ukraine. Paired with drones, artillery, and concentrated air power, that sheer volume of human bodies has been hard to deal with in areas where rebels are chronically low on ammunition and lack the military hardware to compete. Just as important that Tatmador's leadership has become more capable. While corruption and incompetence are still real problems, the regime's prior generation of ground commanders, mostly promoted for loyalty or because of personal connections, have been replaced with experienced officers who can [clears throat] guide their troops better. And while Chinese support has been far less than the Tapador probably wanted, Beijing has responded in critical ways, restricting the flow of dual use civilian drones that the rebels could have used and sending jamming technology to the Tapador as well. Simultaneously, China has forced resistance groups to leave certain areas, closed border gates, detained resistance leaders, and demanded that China's partners in probeijing autonomous W state stop selling arms and ammunition to rebel groups. Now, we'll be discussing China at greater length in just a moment because China still refuses to help the Tatore in the more substantial ways that would wrap this conflict up. But at the very least, China seems to have decided that it would like to help the Tatore not collapse. [music] But as we're going to explain at length today, this relatively improved situation from the Tatador doesn't mean that Marmar's military hunter is going to win. It just means that at least in the near future, the Tatore isn't going to lose. Across the rebel front, the resistance has notched victories of its own. It's captured or recaptured villages and military posts, and it's been able to hold the Tatore in high-cost, low progress engagements on multiple fronts for many months each. In December 2025, a new coalition of 19 ethnic groups formed the New Spring Revolution Alliance, bringing together powerful factions in a pro-federalist, pro-human rights alignment of over 10,000 total troops. Meanwhile, in the territory of the ethnic Chin, several Jin fighting forces have merged into the Chin [music] People's Army. And just weeks before this episode was written, a highly influential rebel leader from the Sha ethnic group managed to capture a few global headlines condemning the world's ignorance of the Tatador's air campaign. While the Termodore does appear to have greater momentum on the ground than the rebels do, it is simply not accurate to claim that the Tatore is doing now what the rebels were doing in 2023 and 2024. Momentum has shifted. Yes, but more importantly, the scale of the entire conflict has shifted from a back and forth sequence of major territorial exchanges to a situation much more similar to the front lines in Ukraine. If a rebel offensive in 2023 or 2024 captured 10 km of territory, a Tamador offensive today will capture 1 kilometer, often at much greater cost of time, munitions, resources, and human lives on both sides of the conflict. Military operations are more grinding. Both sides are more willing to pour their efforts into localized frontline action. And when breakthroughs do take place, they generally take months to achieve. In 2023 and 2024, the rebels were capturing 5%, 10%, 15% of Marmar's entire territory at a given time. Today, nobody is capturing territory on that scale, whether the rebels or the regime are the ones making the attempt. It's just not that kind of war anymore. Now, before we dig into the details on just why the Civil War in Myammar might be unwinable, we've got to do a bit of shameless self-promotion for our Warfronts team and talk about something near and dear to all of our hearts. Our premium subscription service, Front Stockhol, which I would normally point to the neon sign here, but that studio is having renovations. So, I'm in this studio without much decoration. I know it's sparse. I'm sorry. Over at Fronts, our team goes even deeper into the global conflicts, the geopolitics, and the hidden influences that shape our world. Front subscribers get exclusive access to two premium episodes every single week, plus our entire catalog of written articles featuring award-winning journalists and experts from across the globe. A subscription costs just $5 a month or $50 a year, and helps us preserve our independence and expand our free offerings on YouTube. And while you're checking our fronts, be sure to