# YouTube Video J8A2eqW3lq8

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J8A2eqW3lq8
**字数：** 1687 词

---

This Sunday, February 1st, will mark five years since the military retook control in Myanmar, also known as Burma. A coup that ended a brief period of more democratic rule, ousting elected leader Anguchi, and setting off a bloody civil war. The military celebrated the anniversary by declaring a sweeping win for their political party in the country's three-phase general election, a vote widely denounced as a sham, marked by repression, and with large parts of the population excluded from voting. The UN reported Friday that at least 170 civilians were killed by military air strikes during that election period. Well, for some insight, we can speak to Mark Farmer, director of the NGO Burma Campaign UK. Good morning and thank you so much for taking the time to speak with us. &gt;&gt; Good morning. &gt;&gt; I was thinking you could perhaps start by giving us your overall feeling about this anniversary. The military has been back in control for half a decade now. What's your level of hope for the future of democracy in Burma? &gt;&gt; Well, I think a lot of people in Burma will be arguing that the military are not back in control. That this was a a huge miscalculation by the military. They thought um this coup would put them in back in complete control of the country after a period where they have shared power with an elected government. Um and it it went horrifically wrong for them. They were met with mass protests. Um when they cracked down on those protests, they were met with armed resistance. The students that have been protesting in the streets, they went into the jungles and mountains on the borders of of Myama where there have been long-standing ethnic resistance organizations who are been fighting the Burmese military because of the repression they're facing. They received training, they received arms, and the Myama military lost control of more than half the country. Um, at one point they were down to own complete control of only 20% of the country. So these elections that they've been holding over the past month, they're they're part of a desperate strategy for the military to try to regain some sort of credibility and legitimacy um because they're in deep trouble. Um, you know, they've been unleashing all the weapons of war they have against the people of of Myama. They've detained 20,000 political prisoners. They've uh they've been conducting air strikes on a daily basis, killing thousands of people. Um, and it hasn't worked. The people of of Myanmar are still resisting. They've rejected this election. They know it's a complete sham, and they vowed to continue resisting military rule. Can you talk a bit more about what that resistance looks like? I mean, is it is it a unified resistance or is there sort of a danger of fracturing in the country? &gt;&gt; It it's it's mixed. So, there is a national unity government that was established uh partly by elected representatives from the the 2020 election. Um and they have these people defense force um forces across the country. Um some of them are under their control, some of them independent. And then you have uh long-standing ethnic armies, the Kuran National Union, the Kachin Independence Organization and others who have been administering their own territories for a very long time and resisting military rule. Um so you now have a multiple sort of local administrations being built across the country, a kind of bottomup democracy where there is a level of coordination um on a more informal level, sometimes more formal. I don't think there's really a risk of of MMA fracturing um the organizations that are fighting the Burmese military. They all agreeing to stay part of the country, but what they want is more they want human rights. They want more autonomy. They want control over their local natural resources. Um and for the first time now we are seeing in the parts of the country no longer occupied by the Mayama military you're seeing the con people being consulted about how they want to be ruled and governed what kind of laws they want in place how natural resources should be used for for their own benefit and and these local administrations are providing health and education services and I think this is something the international community really needs to get behind they they worry about as you're saying time are fracturing but [snorts] actually people on the ground are building democracy now. The election is a sideshow. Um what's really happening on the ground is people for the first time uh having a choice in how they're ruled, how the rules that will govern them after decades of military rule or authoritarian rule. &gt;&gt; And speaking of international involvement, I know your organization is calling out uh the UK government for its inaction. What's your message for Kier Starmer and for other officials? People in Miami are incredibly disappointed after the coup. There were so many statements of international support from the UK, the USA, the European Union and others. Um, and initially there was a response where Western countries were trying to stop the flow of arms and equipment money to the to the Myama military. That's just stopped now. Um, it's been more than a year since the UK or the EU imposed any sanctions targeting the Myan military. And we're seeing air strikes increasing, deaths as you describing, 170 dead just during the election period alone. Um, you know, the the Mama military depends on the international community for its funding, for its arms, for its equipment. It it's totally dependent on international support. A lot of that comes from China, India, Russia. Um, but there's still many Western companies that are involved in in the gas industry there which funds the Mama military, American tech firms providing services to military-owned companies which provide huge profits for them. There's a lot more that can be done by the UK, by Kistama, by the European Union to chip away at these sources of arms and revenue and reduce the capacity of the Maya military to keep killing people. &gt;&gt; Why has there been an action from from Western countries like the UK? Why aren't they doing anything? &gt;&gt; It's inexplicable. We We can't get an explanation from the British government. We keep asking them. There's cross party political support. All officially all the main political parties in the UK support targeted sanctions to stop arms going to the Burmese military to stop money going to them. And there isn't any action being taken. We It's just not being prioritized as an issue. There's no significant impact on the economies of the EU or the UK if they did take these kind of actions. There's not any major investment or any risk to jobs in the EU or UK. It's just that they that really what people in my saying is if it seems like they just can't be bothered, they just don't care. the way that you describe the the elections are sort of a a sign of weakness from the military trying to kind of grasp at power. Do you think that it's going to be successful that that strategy could could work out for them? &gt;&gt; Well, I think the the risk it's interesting to see they've made very little effort to make these elections credible to Western countries. it it seems like they're mainly they're counting on Russia, China um in particular to to keep propping them up and supporting them. Um but the danger is what happens when they form their new proxy government because what we saw after the sort of rigged elections that they held in 2010, a militarybacked government came in which had been rejected by Western countries but they were very smart in sort of introducing superficial reforms. They released a lot of political prisoners but left all the laws that can arrest them on the books. They they gave diplomats [clears throat] and others visas to enter the country after a long period of restriction. They talked a good talk while actually not making any fundamental reforms. And what people are afraid of is that the military will try to repeat that trick to to promote another fake reform process to try and get sanctions and international pressure lifted while in fact they're still holding all the key levers of power. &gt;&gt; And so to prevent that from happening, what are you calling for? What would you say would be the best roadmap going forward? I think governments need to learn the lessons of history that they made big mistake before backing a sham reform process which when they lifted sanctions the Maya military was able to buy arms which they're now using to bomb home, schools and villages. Now they need to continue the policy that they officially have which is to systematically identify and sanction sources of revenue, arms and equipment. That's one of the most effective things they can do. They need to look at more efforts for international justice and accountability like we've just seen happening at the International Court of Justice regarding the genocide of the Rohingya, but also support the bottomup democracy that people are building in the country. the local administrations providing services to the people give help them build the capacity to provide those services as an alternative to military rule because this is demonstrating that democracy you know if is possible in the country they're they're consulting on how they can build local democracy on the ground it might be an unfamiliar form of government to have multiple small administrations across the country but it's one that will probably be more effective for Miami which is so ethnically, religiously diverse and where decades of central governments trying to impose rules and regulations and laws on people has completely failed. It's just led to instability and conflict. All right, Mark Fariner, thank you again so much for bringing us your insight this