# YouTube Video TWXzwmMAVaw

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TWXzwmMAVaw
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 4645 词

---

Welcome back, defenders. Ukraine did it again. Ukrainian drone attack badly damages Russia's main Black Sea oil terminal. This is Russia's port city of Nova Assis, and Ukraine successfully struck it two nights ago. This is the oil loading terminal, and Ukraine has struck it before, but something tells me Ukraine might have finished it off. I'm going to share the pictures and videos, and these are pretty incredible. The damage looks extensive. Here's a video showing the air defense systems for Nova Assist going off. And they just couldn't shoot down Ukraine's Firepoint drones. We don't know how many drones successfully hit the terminal, but it had to have been at least six or seven. This is the picture that went viral online. This is showing the fire at several locations and Russia's air defenses going off. It kind of looks like War of the Worlds. And Ukraine's Ministry of Defense is actually trolling the Russians by posting photoshopped images of the port on fire. I can share a couple of these with you. People online have been photoshopping this all day. This one has cats. And you can geollocate where the fire is coming from. This fire is coming from the loading terminal. And then these two are coming from the loading peers. You can geollocate the fires from a different angle. This shows the hill line. Orange, orange, blue, blue, red, red. Ukraine hit everything they wanted to hit. Here's a satellite image of this morning. And there's oil leaking from the harbor. So I would say this oil terminal is going to be offline for a while. In addition, they hit the naval port. Ukraine nails Russian missile uh frigots in Nova Assist strike. This is the uh frigot the what's the name? The Macarov and they released the Firepoint video showing the drone slamming into the ship. So this frigot is taking part in the air defense activity during the strike. This Firepoint drone saw an opportunity and went in for the hit. This compilation video also shows uh this was a gas rig somewhere in the Black Sea and Ukraine struck this uh on the same night as well. In the Firepoint video, you can see the thermal a little bit and you can see the crew members on top of the ship watching the Firepoint drone come in and then slam into their vessel. Now, the ship didn't sink or anything. It's hiding inside the naval port and it looks like the drone just damaged the bow of the ship. There's also some damage to the pier, but it counts. So, we're going to go to the Black Sea Fleet Bingo board. And this is the frig, the Admiral Macakarov. Ukraine previously somehow struck it on they struck it in October of 2022. That was three and a half years ago, and they struck it again today. Fantastic. Russia's Baltic port resumed shipments two days ago. Ukraine just struck it again. So because the price of oil is over $100 a barrel, this is now Ukraine's focus. Knock off the two terminals in the Baltic Sea, Perk Scanus Luga, and finish off the oil export terminal in the Black Sea. That's the one in Nova Ask. So, the rumor was uh well, I'm sure you can tell from the satellite images, but an oil tanker attempted to dock at Usluga to fill up for the first time in two weeks. Both the terminals have not been loading, but the fires were finally put out and one of the ships attempted to load. So, Ukraine struck it again. This is the only video I could find as of now showing the air defense systems going off and Ukraine successfully striking something in Usluga. I can show you the damage assessments. This is the larger of the two export terminals in the Baltic Sea. This is Perorsque. The red shows what fuel tanks have been destroyed. The yellow shows the damage and the green shows potentially they're fine. Luga could use maybe a couple more drones. The heaviest damage took place in the middle, but you can see there's a lot of green on the board here. So, I don't think Ukraine's done. Russia's air defenses cannot stop Ukraine's drones. And as long as Russia continues this war, Ukraine's going to continue attacking these ports. Ukraine's Baltic port attacks cost Russia nearly 1 billion in oil revenue in a single week. This is according to the Financial Times. Moscow's windfall profits from the Iran war remain high as Brent crude trades above $100 a barrel. Five attacks on Permorluga since early last week have cost the Russian energy exporters about $970 million in revenues for the week of March 29th. Budnenov confirms that allies requested Ukraine halt their strikes on Russian refineries. I'm going to assume this is mostly the Trump administration. The United States is telling Ukraine, "Please stop attacking Russia's oil export terminals. Oil is above $100 a barrel." Ukraine's response is, "We have proposed a energy ceasefire to the Russians and they keep rejecting it." This is President Silinski explaining himself. Everything Russia earns from elevated oil prices will be spent on this war. That is why every restriction on Russia's ability to export oil is the right step. If Russia is ready to stop strikes on our energy infrastructure, we will be ready to respond in kind. This proposal has been conveyed to the Russian side through the Americans. So, Russia is still bombing Ukraine's power plants and gas reserves and their own energy infrastructure. And Ukraine is offered to the Russians, stop bombing our energy infrastructure, and we'll stop bombing your oil export terminals. And the Russians don't want a ceasefire. Kremlin says Ukraine peace talks are on pause as the United States focus shifts. Steve Witoff and Jared Kushner are Donald Trump's negotiators for everything and they're a bit distracted at the moment by Iran in the Middle East. So, they're just kind of ignoring Ukraine and Russia. And Russia doesn't actually want to stop the war. So, Russia doesn't care. So, Ukraine's going to continue attacking deep strikes into Russia. Ukrainian drones reportedly strike Russian military link chemical plant. This has been the focus for the last two months going after all these uh chemical and metallurgy factories that support the Russian military. This is the plant in Russ. This is the Vorones re region. And you can see this video from the highway that yeah, this chemical plant is currently on fire. Let's follow up on that cargo vessel that sank in the Sea of Az. This is the Vulga Balta and it was exporting stolen Ukrainian grain. And it looks like Ukraine did sink this ship. We didn't know for sure, but I would assume based on this video, a video has been released of the ship sinking. Some of the crew members did die. I don't know if this is a new policy or new strategy going after grain ships that are exporting stolen Ukrainian grain, but maybe it is. Or maybe this was just a Firepoint pilot who saw a ship and wasn't sure if it was a military ship and decided to go for it. Ukraine wipes out Russia's rare zoo park radar in 20 28 million Russian loss overnight. This is a very expensive radar system and it looks like Ukraine got it with loitering munitions. $28 million gone. Ukraine is also now going after the launch points for Russia's Shahids. How Russia gets their own drones in the air is they have Dodge Ram pickup trucks and they put the drone on the back of the truck. The truck then drives as fast as it can to help get the drone off the ground. So, this is getting to the point where Ukraine is now prioritizing their firepoint drones and loitering munitions to go after these trucks. If the Russians don't have three or four of these Dodge Ram pickup trucks, then they can't launch their drones on time. It screws up, you know, the coordination with the other missiles and drones being launched simultaneously. The situation for the Russians is so bad. We've even got confirmation from AI Aludenov. He's the head of the Chetchin forces fighting for, you know, Putin in Ukraine. And this is what he's saying about the drone situation. Well, I suppose it's worth noting that the situation has changed precisely in the field of unmanned systems. The enemy has acquired a new model of drone, an upgraded version. They fly further than the previous ones. And of course, they're doing everything in their power to cut off our logistics operations in the border region. And they're succeeding completely. The Chhatchins are saying Ukraine is succeeding. Did you ever think you'd hear that? And this is happening every night. More than 95% of these Ukrainian drone strikes, we're just not seeing the evidence for. Ukraine is going after valid military targets. They're going after logistic supplies, troop concentrations, and they're having tremendous success. I'm really excited to see where we'll be in 6 months of this. Ukraine's just getting started, and everything in Russia continues to get worse. Almost the entire internet has been shut down in Russia. Massive outages across every service and app. And the Russians know what's coming for them. They know as soon as the Kremlin gets full control over the internet or just shuts them out. They're never going to be able to communicate with each other, organize, coordinate, protest, whatever. And for the zombie Russians who wanted to remain apolitical, Putin has finally come for them. So these videos are flooding the internets of Russians panicking and freaking out. Not because they care about Ukraine or care about their own country, but they just want internet. Uh so I'll play a little bit of this woman talking. TIK TOK. THERE'S A COUPLE OF THESE CLIPS STITCHED together and it's the same woman freaking out and she's losing her minds because she doesn't have Tik Tok or Soundcloud anymore. But she's actually very revealing about the psychology of an average Russian person. This is what she continues to say. Not to mention that in 2022, I shut the f up for good. Meaning that when Putin invaded Ukraine, she didn't do anything. She didn't speak up. She didn't want to. I've stopped reading the news. I just didn't give uh an s about any of it. I couldn't care less. I just retreated into my own world. It was so bad that lately I've just been keeping to myself. I had a very interesting world in my head. One that was far more fascinating than reality, but now because I'm in the real world so much, I'm actually talking to people for f's sake. It's absolutely mad. I lost my train of thoughts out of sheer frustration. F it. F it. So the thought of this BS, so it's a thought of impulse. I like shut the f up in 2022. I just kept quiet about it. I said go on Russia like beat Ukraine please for goodness sake. Uh so that the war might end so that we might be one country. I can link this down below, but she's saying as long as she had internet and she could live online in a fantasy world, she didn't really care how bad it got in Russia. as long as she had internet that was preferable to living in reality in Russia. So I think this is what Putin is actually concerned about. He is clamping down on the internet. He is getting rid of VPNs. He is going for total control. He is blocking all Western apps and sites and services that Russians have had for the last 20 years and they're going crazy. I'm sure there are tens of millions of Russians feeling exactly how this woman feels and everything's going to get worse. This is in the Rosttoff region and this is the police, the local police randomly pulling people over saying, "Show me your phone." If you have Telegram or any VPNs installed on your phone, you can be fined. You can be sent to jail. You can be conscripted and sent to Ukraine to go die if you have the wrong apps or services installed on your mobile phone. Let me share this video with you. Hello. What other Foreignech. And there you have it. Russia has thought police. They're going to pull you over and search your phone to make sure you're not getting information from the outside world that conflicts with the narrative that Putin pushes on all his people. This is the end for the Russians. They either have to rise up and get rid of Putin, otherwise they're North Korea. It's only going to get worse every single year. Let's cover the bad news for Ukraine. And Russia continues their campaign of terror. Russia launches 141 drones across Ukraine, kills a mother and a toddler in Odessa. This is Ukraine's prime minister. Three people were killed in last night's Russian drone attack on Odessa, including a 2-year-old child. 16 more were injured, among them children and a pregnant woman. The Russians blew up a kindergarten in Odessa. And they killed two teachers. Arena and Marina were sisters, both teachers, killed by the Russians. Let's quick cover Hungary. Most Hungarians fear rigged election as opposition gains lead. We've got this uh really important election in 5 days. I don't know how many of my viewers wa are from Hungary, but I hope you vote and I hope you don't vote for Vic Victor Orban. And this is a crazy story. I was debating whether or not to even mention it, but let's talk about it. Victor Orban claims that Serbian authorities have found a powerful explosive device along with the equipment needed to detonate it at critical gas infrastructure linking Serbia and Hungary. This is the Turkream pipeline. This flows under the Black Sea through Bulgaria through Serbia and into Hungary. And Victor Orban, a week before his election, is claiming he found explosives or someone found explosives on the pipeline in Serbia. Number one, if Ukraine wanted to destroy or bomb this pipeline, they could just do it in the Black Sea, or they could do it on the territory of Russia. They don't need to sneak into a landlocked country of Serbia to plant explosives that don't even go off. Ukraine doesn't miss. So I don't think it was Ukraine. And then this I think upset Victor Orban, but Serbia clears Ukraine. No link to pipeline sabotage uh right before the Hungarian elections. This is a spokesperson for Ukraine's foreign ministry. We categorically reject attempts to falsely link Ukraine to the incident with explosives found near the Turk Stream pipeline in Serbia. Ukraine has nothing to do with this. most probably a Russian false flag operation as part of Moscow's heavy interference in Hungarian elections. Yes, Russian agents in Serbia planted the explosives not to go off, but so they would be found so that Victor Orban could blame Ukraine. No evidence, but Orban hints Ukraine was responsible for trying to blow up the Turk stream pipeline. Sure. Uh this is the Hungarian opposition leader. Uh he says it's a false flag attack that obviously either the Russians did it or Victor Orban himself did it. This is what Peter Maguar says. He's the guy that hopefully hopefully is going to beat Victor Orban next week. For weeks, we've been receiving warnings from multiple sources that after previous failed false flag operations and a drop in Victor Orban support, uh, he may be planning to cross another line. Many people have suggested that something might accidentally happen in Serbia, possibly involving a gas pipeline around Easter, one week before the elections, and now it's happened. It's so obviously transparent. But I still had to mention it. It's an absurd story and it's not true. Meanwhile, my vice president, 5 days before this election, has gone to Hungary to show his support and endorsement for Victor Orban. Last week, Donald Trump made a video giving his endorsement. And this just irony is dead, guys. Vance openly supports Russia's favorite European ally in Budapest while accusing Ukraine in meddling in Hungary's election. So Victor Orban and he's saying the European Union and Ukraine is interfering in Hungary's election and he's inviting the American vice president to campaign for him. I don't get it, guys. I don't I don't know who this convinces. Who does this work for? Let's cover some good news. Ukraine and Syria show interest in sharing military experience as Zilinski makes his first visit to Damascus. These are some really nice pictures of Zilinski and the new president or leader of Syria meeting. And I'm I'm happy for the people of Syria if it's truly done. If they're done with the Bashar al-Assad family and after more than a decade of civil war, they can finally start rebuilding their homes, that would be fantastic. So, Ukraine went to Syria to collaborate. Ukraine and Syria to reopen embassies as trade hits 9-fold surge in September. So, I think this, you know, the Syrians need food and they can be purchasing grain from Ukraine and not from Russia. Syria at this point is a proxy state of Turkey. Turkey and Turkey has good relations with Ukraine. So this was logical. But yeah, overall this is good news. And this is how far we've come in two years, guys. This was Syria in 2024. Bashar al-Assad and Putin. And this is Syria today. Big changes. And Russia continues to lose. Speaking of losing, uh, let's cover the big events happening with what's going on in Iran. And this is going to be the biggest energy oil shock the world has ever seen. We're we're we're in it now, but because Donald Trump doesn't live in reality, and the things he says is really confusing, a lot of people don't understand how bad it's going to get over the coming months. Goldman Sachs analysts report that the biggest oil crisis in history is about to hit globally with profound and highly destructive consequences. So this thread, you know, gives you all the data and analytics. Like I can link it down below if you want to do a deep dive for yourself. If I were to cover all this information, it would take an hour. But this is how complex the global economy is. And Donald Trump doesn't understand how any of it works. The only thing he knows is that the price of oil is high and this makes uh everything more expensive. This is causing inflation to go up and this is causing his approval ratings and popularity to go down. So Donald Trump is losing his mind. Trump says a whole civilization will die tonight if Iran does not make a deal. It could potentially be happening. Uh there's a lot of prominent influencers in MAGA who are turning on Trump. Iran is their breaking point and they say, you know, I stuck with him through Jeffrey Epstein. I stuck with him through the tariffs. I stuck with him through ICE and killing American citizens, but going to war against Iran and committing genocide, that's their red line apparently. So, thank you. This is the popular podcaster Sean Ryan. He has officially turned on Trump and thinks Trump should be removed from office for threatening genocide. Here's Pierce Morgan. He's British, but he still supports Trump. And he's also criticizing the president. And I think Pierce Morgan is done with Trump. This is Marjorie Taylor Green. She quit Congress, but she's still tweeting every day saying 25th amendment time. There's two ways to remove the president. Either Congress can do it, and they're all terrified of Trump. they're not going to do it. And then there's his cabinet. His cabinet can remove him if he's truly lost his mind. So this is Moscow Marge calling for Trump to be removed from office. Here's Candace Owens. She's also saying 25th Amendment time. Trump needs to be removed from office. These are all MAGA influencers. These are all Trump supporters. Here's Nick Fuentes. He turned on Trump a couple weeks ago. Says that Trump needs to be removed. And Trump has officially lost Alex Jones, one of the worst human beings ever. But he's saying, you know, threatening to, and this is about nukes, to end an entire civilization in a single night. You can only do that with nuclear weapons. So Trump isn't using the N word, though he wants to. But this is what he means. I am threatening to nuke Iran if they do not surrender and do what I want. So, even Alex Jones has turned on Trump and says he should be removed. I know there are still Trump supporters who watch my videos. So, are you going to go to Candace Owens and Pierce Morgan and Alex Jones and tell them they have tid? You guys are the ones who have tids if you still support this genocidal maniac. He's a danger to the entire world and he needs to be removed. And this is what the American people are up against. This is the president of Iran. More than 14 million proud Iranians have so far registered to sacrifice their lives to defend Iran. I too have been, am and will remain devoted to giving my life for Iran. These people are willing to die. They are religious fanatics and they are not going to allow Trump to win after he assassinated their spiritual leader, the Ayatollah. It was a dumb thing to do in retrospect, but hindsight is 2020 and at the moment Trump is threatening to blow up more bridges and civilian power plants. So these are Iranian civilians going to power plants to create human shields. Women and children are going to civilian targets to force Trump to kill them if he wants to bomb these power plants and bridges. I think Trump's going to taco out. I just think it's a threat. But Iran is not negotiating. Iran wants real guarantees that this war just isn't going to restart next year. I'm sure they still want nuclear weapons, which I don't support. There are no winners here, guys. I'm not taking Iran's side. Everybody loses. Iran loses, the United States loses, the Gulf States lose, Europe loses, China loses. Like, Donald Trump started this. And we all just lose. And we don't really know what's going on in the country of Iran because the internet has now been out for over a month. I don't think the people are rising up. I don't think they're taking to the streets. Um, but you know, we don't we don't know everything. We don't see everything. I don't have a good transition here, guys. It's a terrible situation and the entire world is stuck here. Trump threatens to pull the United States out of NATO amid fallout over Iran war. Can he legally do that? No. Trump can't legally take us out of NATO. But nobody in the United States is following the law anymore. Donald Trump has made himself a king and the Republicans in Congress won't check him, won't investigate him, won't impeach him. They're all terrified of him. And this chaos that we're all feeling, this is what the Russians paid for interfering in the 2016, the 2020, and the 2024 elections. They just wanted to see the United States destroy itself. They just wanted to see Trump destroy NATO. This is the Russians laughing their asses off. Corel Dmitrifa Voice has spoken. It's time to leave NATO. It's time to leave NATO. It's time to leave NATO. The account Magava Voice is a Russian. The user is Russian and poses as an American conservative. And because this slop account has 1.4 million followers, it just retweets MAGA [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] and propaganda all day every day. my fellow dumb Americans will follow this account. So, we have a Russian retweeting a Russian saying it's time to leave NATO. And maybe like 30 to 35% of my fellow Americans who still support Trump believe this nonsense. This is how dumb these people are. No apologies. They're terrible people. They will not snap out of it. They will not wake up. One piece of good news today. Sweden to provide Ukraine with Trident MK2 air defense systems to combat suicide drones. Sweden allocated 400 million for this. Thank you so much the fantastic Swedes. Final video I have for you today is from friend of the channel Richard Woodruff. Every couple months we do another fundraiser with him for something called Vid Nova. And Vid Nova is a retreat in the Carpathian Mountains for Ukrainian defenders going through rehabilitation. There's a couple videos on Richard's channel that I can link down below if you want to see and experience what these retreats in the mountains are like for these Ukrainian defenders. They absolutely love it. And Richard made a video for our channel to explain his most recent fundraiser. &gt;&gt; Good evening, you incredibly beautiful people. It's Richard Woodruff here from Frontline Kit in the center of the beautiful and historic Leviv, Ukraine. I'm talking to you tonight about Vid Nova. Vidnova is our rehabilitation program that we run for heroes from the front lines of Ukraine up in the Carpathian Mountains at the MC6 residence. This rehabilitation program is 7 days of not only physical and mental rehabilitation but cultural programs, music, art, dance, therapy, sauners. It's just absolutely everything that these soldiers from the front lines need to have a little bit of rest, relaxation, but most importantly rehabilitation. Uh many people many of the past participants have said this has allowed me to sleep again to smile with my kids you know to just feel a little bit human again and this all happens because of you guys donating and this year or this time we're trying to raise $12,000 and that will cover all 12 participants and their families for a 7day rehabilitation break. If that isn't value for money I don't know what is. Um, I'll insert some clips here of the incredible time that our past participants have had in the mountains and just give you a little brief glimpse at how beautiful the accommodation is. So, please, if you can help some of our heroes from the very front lines of Ukraine get a little bit of rest, relaxation, and rehabilitation, that would be awesome. I want to say a special thank you to Jake Bro because it's you and your YouTube community that every single time we host one of these events, your community makes sure that every single hero gets to go. Uh your community donates so that soldiers in Ukraine get the rehabilitation which means they can not only fight on um but live on. So thank you guys. It means the absolute world. I love you so much. and if you want to donate, you can do so via the link below or over at frontline kit.org. I'll put the link down below if you want to kick in 5 or $10. Uh they're looking to fund raise 12,000. Thank you so much everyone. That's all for this update video. Glory to Crane. Glory to the heroes. If you found this video informative, give me a thumbs up. Best way to support the channel. Comments and questions, let me know down below. I love hearing from you guys. Till the next video, keep defending the truth. Keep defending democracy.