# YouTube Video feTtRmL22pM

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=feTtRmL22pM
**字数：** 403 词

---

This firefighter attempts to comfort a toddler he's just rescued from inside the rubble. &gt;&gt; But how do you explain this to a small child? &gt;&gt; In Tran, screams and sirens are becoming as familiar as the flattened buildings. Overnight, there were more strikes on Iran's capital, a month on from the start of this conflict. A grim milestone that was marked with explosions and the expansion of this war as Yemen's Irrambacked Houthies entered the conflict. In view of the continuing military escalation against our brothers in Lebanon, Iran, Iraq, and Palestine, the Yemeni armed forces have carried out their first military operation. Houthy involvement risks broadening this war given their ability to disrupt shipping lanes &gt;&gt; and that could put more political pressure on the US president. If he's feeling it, it isn't showing. They have to open up the straight of Trump. I mean Harmmouth the fake news will say he accidentally said no there's no accidents with me. &gt;&gt; This war is claiming yet more lives and its fallout is extending far beyond the Middle East. Amy Lewis, ITV News. &gt;&gt; Well, events in the Middle East continue to have a knock-on effect here, of course. And as fuel prices rise, there's a warning of temporary shortages from one of the UK's leading supermarket retailers. Sabah Chowry is at the filling station this evening. Sabah, what are prices looking like today? Good evening. Well, the cost of petrol at this pump is now over £155 per liter and diesel is almost £1.90 as the war continues to hike up prices and it's consumers that are feeling the impact. &gt;&gt; These are the biggest rises we've seen since the start of the war in Ukraine. So, pretty hard for households to cope with. We obviously have the big Easter weekend coming up, so it's going to be make that a bit more expensive unfortunately for those who are planning to go away. &gt;&gt; Is there enough supply to go around? Many have been asking. Well, according to Asda's executive chairman, Alan Leighton, the odd pump at his supermarkets have been, he says, temporarily without. He's also said that it's clear uh that demand is outstripping supply but experts are being uh very clear as well saying that there is no need to panic buy fuel they say because the overall uh amount of petrol and uh diesel available is stable.