# YouTube Video UAwHxwVxfVA

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UAwHxwVxfVA
**字数：** 7359 词

---

i'm venanisha rainey >> and i'm arthur scott gettys >> and this is battle lines global health security. it's wednesday, 21st of january, 2026. >> myanmar is in the middle of a sham election at the same time as the country is mired in a civil conflict. >> but china really wants this election to go well. why? on today's episode, we're going to be finding out. >> we're joined by sarah nui, the telegraph's global health security correspondent based in bangkok, and joe freeman from amnesty international. so sarah, you had a rare opportunity to visit uh junah held myanmar recently uh for the most recent round of the elections. they've been widely dismissed as a sham. uh but before we get on to the elections themselves, what was the situation like on the ground? what was it like to be there? uh how was it different to the rebel held areas of myanmar that you visited? >> yeah. so i think what was striking about yangon was on the first glance it almost looked normal. you know, i was staying at a hotel with christmas music blaring. uh people are selling things on the side of the road. life continuing as normal. but as soon as you ask even a single question, it's clear that everyone's experiences in life over the last 5 years have changed dramatically. and the more you look, the more you notice stalled developments around the city. lots of an absence of young people. a lot of young men in particular have fled because of forced conscription or to seek work overseas. um so to me it was just very striking the in particular and in contrast to rebel areas where you see more air strikes and real poverty and hardship and hunger here it was much more about the economic ramifications of conflict. we've seen huge currency deflation since the coup in 2020. um and it was just very striking to me how much people were struggling and talking about fuel. you know taxi drivers complaining about how much fuel has gone up. um young people, you know, 12, 15 year olds who've now had to start working instead of going to school. um and a whole section of the middle class that's just been completely wiped out by the economic collapse that myanmar has seen in the last 5 years. so, it was one of those places where on the surface you can almost forget there's a conflict raging in so much of the country. we're not seeing bombed buildings or fighting in the center of yanggon. um but this economic impact, it it's hard to hard to ignore. so you were in yangon which is not myanmar's capital but its most populous city right. um so no signs of fighting but was there a heavy military presence? i mean what signs were there that there is a massive civil war raging across the country? well it was an interesting time to be there because it was the days around the election. so we were seeing lots of well outside the polling station much more police um armed police outside all the polling stations and there were some military in the city but it actually it was my first time to yanggon um unlike our my colleague joe um but it was surprising to me that there wasn't more military presence in the area that i was in. um it was much more police presence that i saw and felt. i know some colleague uh some journalists colleagues who went to mandandalay and um the reporter we were working with in mandandalay nandent who's a a burmese reporter i think there was more u military and uh um police presence there which is a city um further north which is actually where the earthquake hit earlier this year but yeah in yanggon it it was striking to me how you could just go and have a nice time in a cafe if you wanted to um but then as soon as you start having conversations or look more deeply um kind of the fabric of the city has just been torn apart. >> the absence of young people must have been quite sort of unsettling as a as an experience. i don't know what was the kind of atmosphere like. >> it was striking to me at the polling stations that the majority of people who were coming in were older rather than younger people. um i think that's partly because a lot of young people as i said have left but also potentially less fear among those groups or um more of a sense well the election in general. there was a very strange atmosphere because people are terrified of talking to journalists of whether they should or shouldn't vote in the election. um there's been a new election law introduced a few months ago which really cracked down on any criticism. we've seen people go be sentenced to 49 years in prison for putting up stickers around yangong calling for boycots of the election. like this is really extreme repression that's been going on. when we did come across young people, i think that they were more willing to talk to me potentially. also, i was speaking to people in english, so maybe there was a language barrier there, too. um, but yeah, i think that the overarching sense, especially outside polling stations, we had a lot of people who didn't want to talk to us at all, and they were never rude. burmese people are some of the friendliest people and welcoming people, but they'd be like, "oh, you're going to cause me trouble if i talk to you." or, "oh, please be careful. i'm not sure it's safe." um, so there was this tension in the air around the election and around concerns about whether they should or shouldn't be taking part, what's going to happen if they don't, are they going to be arrested or followed? are their family members going to be arrested and followed? um we met some one person whose family worked in the civil service and she didn't want she clearly didn't want to vote but she was there because she was terrified about what would happen to her family member if um she didn't have if she didn't or wasn't on the polling list. i think one thing that was notable to me as well is they've introduced um digital ballots, electric ballots, but at the end of voting process uh they still made people dip their little finger into an into a ink. so people are walking around and it's really visible to see who has and hasn't voted. um whether that was a deliberate attack or not is hard to say for me, but i i thought that was striking. >> i was really struck by one of the quotes in your um article, which we'll link to in the show notes. if i vote, i feel like i'm betraying my own beliefs. if i don't vote, i worry that my name will be noted and i could be questioned later. every decision feels dangerous and i think that really cuts to the heart of why these are sham elections, but burmese people are really caught in the middle. um joe, just just talk us through the stakes here. so this election is being held in three phases from december 28th to january 25th and it's the first since 2020. what's at stake for myamar here? >> i think we need to break that down into what's at stake for the different stakeholders. so i mean maybe to start with the people who are running this election, the military. it's been 5 years since they launched this coup which was an attempt to sort of reassert their uh dominance and position in uh in myammar society in myammar politics. the whole point of the sort of democratic transition that started in 2020 to 2012, these reforms that were supposed to lead to this civilian democratic era in myanmar was to slowly sort of help the military withdraw from the political scene because they've always played a very large um role in political life in myanmar since independence. this is not the first coup from 5 years ago. there have been several there have been several different military regimes. so the idea though this time was that the military would officially sort of recede from the from political view. i think the military after five years of not having that same role it used to have or getting a taste of what that would look like over time decided this isn't for me. and so uh that's why they launched the coup to reassert their sort of position and dominance. and then over the past five years, they've really been desperately trying to to cement uh you know the paragraph that they launched on february 1st, 2021. i think they were a bit surprised at the nationwide resistance including the sort of initial protest movement and then the proliferation of armed conflict and armed groups uh including you know armed uprisings in many parts of the country and almost all parts of the country. i think that took them a little bit uh by surprise. but we have to remember this is an organization that has never fought a war kind of outside its own territory. it's only fought against its own people since since independence in 1948. so in a way this is what it does. you know it puts down rebellions. this is they're very good at it. um so what's at stake in this election is for the military is its credibility as uh the leader going forward in myanmar. what it wants to do is uh retain its position but in a way that like a criminal would launder its money to become a legitimate business. so this election is a kind of human rights or credibility laundering and it spent the past year very craftily kind of laying all this laying all this out. i would say it started about six six months ago with this election law that sarah mentioned where they made it almost impossible to oppose the election in any way because there were uh severe punishments as she mentioned uh uh there's also the death penalty u for anyone who kills someone who is taking part in the election. so creating quite a quite a chilling effect on really any opposition from 3 years to the death penalty. right. um, and i would say that that is one prong of their strategy to have this election to create kind of an off-ramp from this 5 years of military rule and show the international community that it's ready to lead as a responsible civilian government. of course, that's all a mirage and it's just going to be the same thing that it has been for the past 5 years. uh, just, you know, um, uh, new new wine in different, you know, bad bottles, i guess you could say. so i think for the military those are the stakes. it's credibility for civilians, for people of myanmar, uh for the people who are in the in the resistance. i mean the stakes are their lives, right? they're fighting for their lives. they're fighting for their community. they're fighting for their livelihoods. many many of them, as sarah mentioned, have had to leave the country, have been conscripted into the army. we're talking about whole lost generations of of young people here, lost their education, lost their future, lost their family members. so i think for everyone the stakes are quite high and that's why this uh despite this election i don't think many things are going to change inside the country. the question is how the international community is going to respond to it whether people will start recognizing the military dealing with it um and ignoring the abuses of the past 5 years and that's what we're quite concerned about. >> so who can people vote for in these elections? who who are the available candidates? and crucially where is angangsuchi in all of this? our listeners will remember she was the leader effectively until she was deposed in the 2021 coup. >> well, the vast majority of parties that were on the ballot in 2020 are not on the ballot anymore. uh there's an election monitoring group called afrell and they've said 57% of parties that ran in 2020 no longer exist even though these parties received 70% of the votes and 90% of the seats in that election. the main party, the nationwide party is called the union solidarity and development party. that's the militarybacked um militarybacked party and they've in the first round of elections as joe said this but this is held over three rounds. um they won or they said they won 80% of the votes and turnout was about 50% of people. can we believe either of those numbers 80% and 50%. >> i would say probably not. um i mean it was striking to me we were there on the day of the ballot. um and i think that as joe said they really want credibility. that's why they invited journalists in in the first place to create a veneer of legitimacy for this process. um at the end of the day at 4 p.m. on the sunday when in the first round of voting in yanggon, they kind of announced it very loudly at the polling stations and the polling station they wanted all the journalists to go out. they started counting ballots there and then. um but they announced very quickly who won. so i i'm not sure we can really trust those figures at all. but yes, the national league for democracy and sang sushi's party, they've been disbanded and sang sushi is imprisoned. it's really not clear where or how she is. um, previously she was under house arrest, but we really have no information about how she's doing or where she is. even her own son said in an interview before christmas that if she had died, he wouldn't be surprised if she didn't know. um, so yes, this isn't really a choice. this is vote for the military back party or else. >> and joe, you were in myanmar in 2015 for an election that was very different. could you just set out that contrast for us? >> absolutely. i mean, it it couldn't it couldn't be more different. it's it's night and day. first of all, i could go to myammar in 2015. now, if i went, i could um you know, as a member of a human rights organization that constantly criticizes the military, i would i would probably not be allowed in the country or granted a visa. um that's the first thing. uh the second thing is just the uh different emotions and um of optimism that uh permeated myamar society at that time. let me give you a quick example about that. right after the election in um i think it was late 2015 or 2016 after it had been made clear that ananssuchi's party had won in a landslide um ananssuchi herself did this sort of public um trash cleanup campaign almost like a um a victory lap in her own constituency in a town right outside of yanggon. and she in invited people, journalists, media to come, you know, pick up trash with her. it was a little bit strange. anyway, we all went and we're literally standing, i don't know, 3 ft away from her, picking helping taking pictures, but also picking up some garbage at the same time. it was kind of quaint and charming and fun and everyone kind of thought, well, this is the beginning of something maybe special in myanmar, like things are going to change. obviously, a lot of the problems that still exist were were there. you have persecution of the rahinga community. you have conflict in other ethnic minority states. however, there was this general feeling of joy. and i remember on election night when we were all standing outside the national league for democracy headquarters and the ballots kept coming in and they kept announcing another nld victory and another nld victory and the whole crowd was cheering. u i remember someone saying, "well, is the military going to allow this?" and actually the surprise at the time was that they did that there was no backlash. um and i think that was also what was so strange about this coup and what's what why it took so many people by surprise because in some ways the military had everything to lose by by launching this coup. they had still retained a certain amount of power after 2015. they still had seats in parliament. they still had several uh control of several ministries. they still had control of tons and tons of uh very lucrative businesses and companies. i mean they really are a kind of cartel in that in that respect. so in this way they've just kind of invited more more scrutiny onto all onto all these things that they have and all the sort of dirty business and human rights abuses that they're quite known for. but you know just to just to end by saying that it is kind a heartbreaking contrast because uh at at the time it really did feel like myammar had turned a page over really decades of of gent rule and and really horrific abuses that uh have never really been accounted for to something new and something exciting and the international community was involved. you know we had new companies coming in um and now look at what's happened to myamar. all a lot of those companies have pulled out. um, a lot of the people who come back have now left again. a lot of the exile media that came back to take part in this transition to be based in their own country have been banned. they were not permitted to and that they wouldn't be safe to even go back and cover this election. a lot of them are in exile like they were pre205 or pre202. so, it really is this this kind of heartbreaking reset to what myanmar used to be. and it it's only happened in i don't know you know 5 to 10 years. so it's also quite a rap quite a rapid reset. you know it's kind of happened very very quickly. um and there also appears to be no real end in sight and maybe we can talk about that later about what's coming next but it doesn't look good right now. >> to add to what joe was saying this came up a lot on election day. the polling stations in the morning at like 600 7:00 when we first got there. it was like tumble weed. it was really quiet. it took quite a long time for people to trickle in. um some people were telling us and i know other journalists who covered it back in 2015 and 2020 like joe that there were cues around the street for people to vote um for ansang sushi then. and like i said about the finger with the ink, people were taking all these photos and posing for facebook pictures afterwards be like look we voted. this is so exciting. there was none of that this time at all. it was such a contrast from the stories that i've heard of that period of excitement from people like joe. >> you've both mentioned that these elections were an attempt by the hunter to seek international credibility and there's one major backer in particular that we haven't talked about yet and that's china. why are they interested in this election taking place given they're not a country known for adherence to democratic values? what's their interest interest in in myanmar? i think it's interesting that they sent um election monitors. uh there was some international media pointing out that a one party state has been advising on what is meant to be a multi-party election in myanmar. um but you know, myanmar's shares a 1,300 mile border with china. it's very much within its sphere of influence and uh it takes a keen interest of what what's happening for lots of business reasons, crime related reasons, etc. um they don't love i i don't think that the beijing loves the military in myanmar, but they see it as the best source of stability for the country. um in 2023, they actually backed a small well actually became quite a big and exciting moment where they they gave kind of tacit approval for some rebel groups to attack the military and and this operation. it did very well, but it almost china was surprised by how well it did and then freaked out because they don't there's no clear path for who can take over if not the military. the resistance groups are splintered. um it's a patchwork of opposition. there's a lot of different ethnicities and viewpoints at play. and i think china just sees the military as the best source of a stable country. and that's why it's it's backing the elections, wanting a veneer of legitimacy to be able to start doing or ex expand upon the business it's already doing in the country um and also ensure that a a westernbacked government doesn't come in and potentially um take over basically. so it's not like a it's a marriage of convenience. it's not love at first sight. um but they just don't want an unsettled country on their border. um joe, i'm sure you have some some thoughts to add on that. >> completely agree with with everything you said. i mean, china has um massive infrastructure interests in in myanmar, especially uh in chapu. there's a deep sea port kind of in near rakine state where there's a lot of conflict. um but i think it's important to to remember that china has always kind of been in a backer of myanmar's military in one way or another. they're one of its biggest arms suppliers. um they obviously give it cover at the security council. you know one of the things that amnesty international has been calling for for years is for the security council uh to refer the situation in myanmar situation all of myanmar to the international criminal court uh the icc and they can't do that without a security council referral. and so of course russia and china will will almost always uh block that. um, russia being a whole another part of this story and the level of stepped up support they've given to the regime is also is also part of this. um, but just back to china for for a second. the story i think of 2025 was china deciding to they've always been a backer of the uh military in one way or another, but maybe they've been more nuanced about it. in 2025, they really just said they really came out and and and stood in front of them kind of completely. so, and and they did that in a few really important ways. so, sarah mentioned this uh operation uh 1027 that started in late uh on october 27th in 2023. that operation which is led by three armed groups uh some of which have some ties to china. it could obviously not have happened without china's uh sort of tacid approval and some of this was related to scam centers uh where that are operating in myanmar where china has a lot of its citizens. china was really pissed off that myanmar that the situation had had escalated to the extent where there were all these na chinese nationals stuck in these scam centers and myammar military couldn't do anything about it or they weren't doing anything about it because they have ties to some of these groups uh who are protecting the centers. so they unleash these or not unleash but they sort of tacically back some of these armed groups um to liberate some of these scam centers but also to just show i think the military that it can sort of press a button and make and make things happen in certain parts of the country. however, the problem with that is it it works both ways and it can work in the in favor of the military too. and that's what happened this past year. and sort of the the trend of the past year has been these really important levels of support um for the military by china. that includes the election of course like they fully back that as as sarah said they send monitors. uh they're they're backing the process. uh so did russia by the way. um and but but also the more important or more sort of um on the ground logistically important um backing is they convince these armed groups who they had kind of previously uh tacitly supported to launch an operation to dial back everything that they'd achieved. so they convinced two of the groups to give back territory that they'd won at great cost. people had died in in this fighting. um and and they reclaimed all this territory, reclaiming areas where there were uh military bases uh captured trade posts all sort all sorts of things that came at quite high cost for uh for these armed groups. um so within the space of a year the myanmar military had regained a lot of territory. they had they received some important backing for uh a political i guess you could call it political maneuver with this election. um, and china was sort of helping guide this, you know, what i talked about earlier, this try to return to a form of cred credibility. and so i can't think of a more important international partner or backer than china in this process. but i think the military also needs to beware because as sarah mentioned before, it can work the other way. they can they can turn around and back some and and back other groups. china will do what is in its interest. at the end of the day, >> we seem to be um returning to a kind of era of spheres of influence in which big countries essentially seek to dominate smaller countries. do you think that in some ways china might be responding to this shift, responding to a more assertive united states and that might be why it's taken this decision recently to kind of fully back the military in myanmar? i mean, one thing of course we haven't touched on is all this has happened at the same time that the the trump administration is withdrawing the us from i don't know the entire world in many in many respects. um in the past year or so um i have traveled to parts of the myanmar border on both the east and the western side like the thai myanmar border and the bangladesh myanmar border where a lot of us funding um used to go until the trump administration came into power and it really it really struck even me i've worked on myanmar for now 10 years even i don't think i really truly understood the extent of us support for civil society for humanitarian organizations for education health um media i mean us funding was almost i won't say propping up but it was it was it was supporting almost all uh myanmar based media that that kind of disappeared almost overnight and so there's all of a sudden this huge vacuum and so okay it stands to reason we can't say for sure but it stands to reason that china saw this as a great opportunity to step in and show that it's a friend of myanmar and that can and help it when another, you know, another supposed friend uh pulls out. and you're not just seeing this in in myanmar. you saw this in other southeast asian countries. i believe in cambodia where ch uh china has also stepped up to support demining programs, which was long a part of um us support in the region. so i i of course they they not i don't think they're going to issue a press release and say that this is the reason they're they're doing this, but the timing obviously is very intriguing. and joe, how decisive has china's support been uh for helping the juna regain the upper hand in the conflict? because it doesn't seem like that long ago that the military really seemed like it was on the back foot. >> so every year at amnesty international, we write these annual report entries for our different countries that we work on. and i just finished mine today actually for 2025. i was looking back at the one i wrote a year ago and the two paragraphs, the two sort of opening paragraphs of background and context are completely different. the one the one a year ago was talking about how the military was on the back foot. they've lost all this territory. u they only control i don't know a third of the country and only major cities. and i was laying out what they what they've lost. and i looked at what i wrote this year and it was this is sort of the return of the genta. this is where they've they've completely made a a comeback. they've regained territory that they've lost. they've made a political comeback. um, we talked a bit about minon lang, the the the senior general who's the head of the the huna. he he made a sort of international comeback too because he for the first time traveled uh to many to some countries. i think it was the first time he traveled to to thailand or or or to an official meeting in in an azan country since the coup. and he also i believe met with putin g the president of bellarus. so for him himself it was this kind of almost coming out party and it's such a contrast to to a year ago. so how decisive i think that it's been it's been very decisive in in the conflict and i feel like the military is coming into this new year feeling way more confident because they have uh supportive friends who are a little bit more supportive than they've been in the in the recent past and um they've reversed a lot of their losses. >> supportive friends. just before we move on, can you tell us a bit more about russia's role because i think that's also really interesting and maybe something our listeners will be less aware of. >> for some reason, that does tend to fly a little bit under the under the radar. maybe because what russia is doing um in ukraine, but um and maybe because they kind of got in there first a little bit before china. so before china i think expressed a more fullthroated support of myammar as it has in the past sort of six to eight months around the election and the conflict, russia was the really public supporter. so russia was sending people to attend, you know, high-profile visits to attend myanmar's military parades. uh min lang was taking i lost count of the kind of trips he was being taken to in russia. they were splashing these big photos over myanmar state media of him traveling around in helicopters vi visiting russian factories. um and and of course russia provides um weapons and fighter jets and things that help uh myammar keep the upper hand in in the conflict as well. >> i want to return to an idea that you uh touched on briefly in one of your previous answers which is the the scam centers. as well as suffering this conflict, myanmar has kind of become a crossroads or a hub for all sorts of illicit activities from human trafficking and the scam centers you mentioned uh to the drug trade and even the illegal wildlife trade. how effective has china's crackdown on these activities been? >> so i think again we're seeing a bit of a turning point in china's approach across the whole region, not in myanmar to scam centers. the problem has almost grown too large to ignore. uh for a long time i think they turned a blind eye to a lot of chinese crime syndicates who were operating not only in myanmar but also in cambodia and in lao. um but i mean for instance in cambodia just uh last week we saw a major arrest and extradition of a chinese businessman shenzhi um who was controlling a massive scam center operation under uh a international company called prince group >> here in the uk right? >> yes. the uk sanction was part of us sanctions and seized a mansion and a office block that he owned in in the uk. so we had strong links um to that whole process. but i think it's a marker of the political pressure that china is putting on these governments. we were also in lao at the end of last year and we saw the crackdown there as well. um and in myanmar there's been a lot of destruction of the scam center oper operations in the last um three or four months. joe's actually been to the border to see this on with drones, but um the military has been bombing these scam centers at kk park and shu koko. um and that is under pressure from china. china is being like you guys need to act now. um how much we are actually seeing the end of scam centers. i don't think that's the case at all. i mean in many places they've just moved from the big centralized locations into smaller spots across the region. um but we've definitely seen a shift in the scale of china's response. >> yeah. and i will say that we did an episode um towards the end of last year with with sarah with you sarah um about scam centers. you went to visit one in lao. so we'll link to that in the show notes. it was a really good episode and it gives a lot of background on this huge organized crime um project that seems to be unfolding across southeast asia across large parts of the world. so do go back and listen to that. just a final question i think for our battle lines audience. what's the status of the conflict in myanmar? who who's winning right now? well, i think as we've mentioned already, really it's been a year of a turning point with the military gaining a lot of territory, gaining a lot of ground. um, we've seen air strikes massively ramp up in the last year. um, ackled, which tracks this, found that there was a 30% increase in air strikes in 2025. some of that was ahead of the election in order to try and gain territory so that they could have elections in that territory. but i think it's just a marker of the fact that this battle is very much still raging. in december, just before christmas, we actually saw an airirst strike on a hospital that killed 30 people in rakhine state. um, so the war is not decelerating and the humanitarian situation is only getting worse. we spoke a little bit about the situation in the cities in in yangon and also in manderlay. but it's worth noting that, you know, in the western rakine state, there's huge segments of the population that are on the brink of famine. like the hunger situation is horrendous there because they've effectively been under a blockade for 18 months. um across the country we've got 3.5 million people now displaced. um there are estimates that eight million children or seven or eight million children are out of school. um so the conflict is raging. it shows no end in sight. the military has gained the upper hand recently clawback territory. um we've also seen some of this is because of the backing of china. some of it's also because of the impact of their force conscription law um which came in in 2024. and we really have seen the impacts of of that in terms of um just boosting the number of people that they've got to fight for them. um and some of those people being treated very poorly just thrown again and again and again as like extra resources a bit like what we're seeing um in in ukraine and russia with russia. so yeah, i think the overall status of the country in the war right now is there's no end in sight. the humanitarian situation is horrendous. the economic collapse has been huge. i mean, one statistic that has really stuck in my head is that the value of the currency has dropped by 80% against the us dollar since 2020 and inflation is now at 30%. um, that was something that came up again and again. so, that's impacting cities as well as these more rural areas that are at the epicenter of fighting. um, and yeah, i think it's a pretty, as joe said, it's it's demoralizing because at the start of 2025, i was quite optimistic thinking maybe we are going to see change. may maybe there is going to be a resistance movement that succeeds um and potentially combat some of these human rights abuses, this humanitarian situation, etc. instead, we're in a situation with an election that is going to change very little in terms of people's lives. you know, um, when we have an election in the uk, you know, all of our political parties go out and they tell us why they should vote for them in terms of improving our lives, right? whether you agree with their policies or not, at least they're coming up with policies that they want to say is going to improve the cost of living. in myanmar, there was none of that this year. it was much more about all of the campaigns ahead of the vote where you have to turn out and vote. it wasn't we're going to make your life better. um, so maybe that sums up where the country is. i think it's almost in a stalemate. um, it will be interesting to see what happens over the next year, but i think as joe said, it's definitely the military are are starting 2026 in a fairly strong position both on the battlefield and potentially in gaining international legitimacy again. certainly, they really want to get back into azen. we mentioned that earlier. that's the association um of southeast asian countries. um, they want to be going to those meetings again and some of these countries are kind of showing signs that they want to engage with the military again. so that's something that i'm watching for in the next 6 months to see how that unfolds >> now that this election is um kind of coming to a close later this month. i think we're going to start seeing more offensives in other parts of the country. sarah mentioned rakine state uh which is largely controlled by the arakhan army uh which now controls the whole border with with bangladesh. i think you're going to see stepped up offensives there now that they've clawed back territory in other areas. they can redirect those resources. the people they've conscripted the the fighter jets all that to the the western side of the country. so i think unfortunately we're going going to be seeing way more air strikes um um way more violence in that in in in in rakine state. um and i think the other thing that i'm really concerned about in in the context here is the general withdrawal from myanmar um from from countries and from the international community in general. i mean, we mentioned the the united states. obviously, i don't think the that their support is coming back anytime soon, but sort of my my main message that i've been trying to get across is that the international community needs to really try to recommmit to myanmar in in 2026 because the last year uh in addition to it being a year that was uh sort of uh win after win for the for the military in a way was also coinciding at a time when when international community was kind of abandoning myanmar. you saw countries like the us but but others uh drawing down their their their foreign aid budgets uh i recently heard about um some countries uh who are closing down their embassies in yangan because their budgets are are are decreasing. um, and when i say budgets decreas, and that can be a bit amorphous, but you know, those things, as sarah mentioned, they pay for uh food rations for people, for humanitarian aid, for education, um, for for so many so many things. um, and if that if that doesn't come back, i mean, people can only hold on hold on for so long. so um i really want i really want if i can get this message across and on this platform um i think states around the world need to recommit to myanmar not just not just with money. there are other ways that they can um they can put pressure on the on the military. they can call for the release of of prisoners. there's still tens of thousands of people who are are either facing arrest warrants or are in jail in myanmar um who have been there since since the coup or even now since the election under this election law um there's currently a uh several efforts at international justice efforts that states can get behind um including the rahinga genocide trial that started at the international court of justice this week um we i mentioned 2024 and 2025 contrast the international criminal court prosecutors is there issued a request for an arrest warrant for minon lang in 2024. in 2025, well, where what what what has happened with that? so, i would encourage that process to move forward. um, it would be great to see uh more accountability and justice efforts on, you know, in these international platforms. so, there are things that that can be done. you know, it's not all happening within myammar. i think i also just closed by saying i i'm cons i'm i'm constantly kind of amazed that um despite all these challenges that um there is quite a strong resistance in myammar and i don't just mean armed resistance that has held up. i mean you know normal people who are continuing to do whatever they can to resist the military uh peacefully um whether that's in silent strikes where they close down their business for the day whether that's in creative protests that they do inside the country and flash mobs. so, i don't want to end on quite a bleak message. i think there's still a lot of hope in myanmar that people can can can resist what's happening and and endure this. of course, um it's easier said than done. >> joe freeman, researcher for amnesty international, and sarah newi, our global health correspondent in bangkok. thank you very much for joining us on battleines's global health security. >> that's all for today's episode. we'll be back on friday. >> until then, goodbye. >> goodbye. >> [music]