# YouTube Video VRxyTHGDwi8

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VRxyTHGDwi8
**字数：** 3706 词

---

al- shar he's going to be speaking in arabic with translations through the headphones and we have because of the logistics if i can put it that way of arriving at this point we have about half an hour we are i should say developing a considerable stream of work on syria at chattam house as a key area supported by the open society foundations and by the foundation a very brief introduction the president was born in saudi arabia to a syrian family, grew up in damascus. he became de facto leader of syria's transition following the overthrow of the previous regime in december 2024. he has served as president of syria since his formal appointment in late january 2025. before that, he was for many years the leader of haya taria al-sham, an islamist armed group that played a leading role in fighting and deposing the assad regime. its origins were linked to al-qaeda and he had years earlier joined al-qaeda in iraq in september germany. welcome to chattam house. thank you for your time. let me ask you whether you've had a successful meeting in the uk and whether the uk will be opening its embassy in damascus soon. [clears throat] foreign speech. foreign speech. foreign speech. [cough and clears throat] >> [clears throat] >> few days we received a delegation from the uk. it was an introductory delegation as it were. then we were visited by the uh foreign secretary after a few months. uh we uh discussed um the situation in syria, the past and the future and then uh we implemented the uh procedures um directly as we have uh done uh with um many of the countries. britain has contributed to supporting um syria to lift the sanctions. um and of course the relationship continues the um different uh meetings that we have conducted in the uk will enhance uh trust and uh we will be uh full ready on the diplomatic level on the embassy level and others. >> you said at the doha forum in december, just a few months ago, that you would stick to your commitment of having elections within 5 years of your taking power, which you did in december 2024. so, less than four years from now, are you still on track for that? >> [snorts] >> he's saying there's some sort of confusion in the interpreting. so, can you please repeat so that i repeat the interpretation? >> are you still on track to have elections within 5 years of when you took power? >> syria has um conducted a national dialogue uh congress. uh it had um recommendations including um the uh constitutional declaration and that included um the elections of five years and we will uh have the um we have the elections of the people's assembly, the parliament and the first session will be next month. we will review uh the laws and legislations that we are paving the way for free elections in syria. >> when will people be able to form political parties? as um the constitution is not um applicable after the constitutional declaration. um the uh people's assembly uh will establish uh commissions that will reddraft the constitution including uh legislations for political parties um where we will have the infrastructure for the elections that will help. you're often asked about what reassurance you can give that the government will not bring islamist social norms to the whole country. and people point to concerns like uh people detain detained for breaking their fast during ramadan or an alcohol ban in damascus though it was overturned. what measures are you putting in place to make sure that administration is not used to restrict people's personal freedoms? the administration applies um the laws of the country and then we would have the constitution applied and the parliament and the mission of the president is to apply the laws rather than impose them on people. let me ask you about your mission to unite syria. the us has recently backed you in the movement of your armed forces against the kurdish forces in the northeast. >> sorry, can you repeat? >> let me ask you about your mission to unite syria and about the kurds in particular. the us has backed you and your armed forces moved against the kurdish forces recently. are you now going to bring kurdish fighters inside the army? >> syria as at our arrival um in damascus um agreed that um the state will only have uh the only party that will have weapons will be the state and it will not be militias and arms groups and de facto authorities uh with weapons um implementing their own laws. this will not be a country where um people can live based on this. uh we had um a lot of dialogue sessions with sdf. uh the first um agreement was on the 10th of march um 2025. um the agreement um had a term of expiry. we familiarized um the supportive country including the uk and france with it. then uh the um agreement um or the agreement expired and then we had some sort of military clashes. the us did not support us militarily. it tried to solve this problem but the opportunities uh given uh were misunderstood. um uh by sdf. um the syrian government has legitimacy. sdf had limited legitimacy to combat isis. then as the former regime lost its legitimacy, therefore um world countries participated with sdf to defeat isis. but now those countries by law have to cooperate with the state that is recognized by the un based on these procedures. we had a choice that we presented to the us. [snorts] um so that they do not leave their allies. uh therefore we suggested that uh we merge sdf with the syrian army and then we added the agreement of the 29th of january um which stipulates uh for the integration of sdf uh with the syrian institutions including the military. >> let me ask you some things about the region which is not quiet. what would you like the outcome of the conflict between the u the us and iran to be? >> no doubt that iran's intervent interventions in syria for the past 40 years helped uh the former regime to displaced uh syrians. uh we suffer from losing more than 10 million people um who left um syria and we have the missing people whose numbers are close to 250,000 and iran participated and spearheaded um the operation of the syrian regime against the syrian people. we do not have a problem with iran in tahan. we have a problem with iran in damascus because it occupies syrian towns and villages and displaces people. but our policy in syria was clear to reach damascus and uh to safe uh guard um security and to establish um economic development. uh we uh uh have been patient with regard to the relationship with iran. of course, the ongoing war affects the region negatively um cutting of um energy supplies to the international economy. iran has a problem of um trying to manufacture the ballistic missiles and the nuclear bomb and trying to influence um other countries. we recommend um negotiations rather than military power because it will lead to more dangers. >> is syria going to stay neutral while that conflict goes on? unless syria is targeted by any party, syria will remain outside any conflict. we had enough war. we paid a large bill. we are not uh ready for another war experience. those who have been in war know the value of peace. we are trying um to support the syrian economy, work on reconstruction, uh receive um the refugees uh who were displaced from syria and then transform syria into an economic uh location utilizing its strategic geopolitical location in the region. we want um syria to have ideal relationships with the entire region with lebanon, iraq, turkey, saudi arabia and world powers like uh the uk, france, germany and the us. i think that syria is uh qualified um to start a strategic relationship network. um no one is ready to be involved in war and we will not be in it unless we um are subject to aggression and we um have no diplomatic solution. >> there's one country in the region you didn't mention and that is israel. there were a lot of reports last summer that you were having direct talks with them. what would it take for you to normalize relations with israel? at our arrival at damascus, israel dealt with syria negatively, bombing locations, um um did incursions um in syrian territories and violated the 1974 agreement. uh we applied the same policy we're talking about. we tried uh dialogue with indirect negotiations and then direct negotiations. we reached good points but then um the israelis changed their their opinion last minute. >> have you helped stop iranian weapons getting to hezbollah in in lebanon? it is the duty of the syrian state to protect its borders. um, no state would accept open borders and smuggling of weapons because if weapons are smuggled, other things would be passed with with it. uh we paid a price uh for the intervention of hezbollah and syria for 14 years. it participated effectively with the syrian regime in killing the syrian people. despite this, when we arrived at damascus, um we applied policies that do not harm the situation in lebanon. we were keen that the conflict is not spelled over to lebanon, but we want to protect our borders and our duty is to prevent the smuggling of weapons and other things. >> i'm going to take that as yes. what about russia? you did visit the white house last year, but you visited the kremlin a month earlier. are you going to keep the russian military bases open in syria? can you repeat the last part of the question, please? >> are you going to keep the russian military bases in syria open? >> this is an indication that the syrian diplomacy is active. um we go to the white house and then later we go to the kremlin. it is very difficult for any country in the world to have um full balance between conflicting parties. syria, sorry, russia as well was involved in the war against the syrian people. there are historical relations and other links between russia and syria in the past. we tried to deescalate with the russians. amongst uh tens of uh bases only two remained and we are trying to make them bases for training the syrian army. >> me ask you finally two more personal things. i believe you have two daughters. would you like to see at some point a woman become president of syria? >> first of all, i only have one daughter. >> i have two sons and one daughter to correct. i think anyone who would be involved in public affairs realizes it is a big responsibility. i do not wish this on my children. many would agree with you on that. and finally, you've talked at some length, very openly about the many years when you fought for al-qaeda and related groups. do you still consider their aims desirable or is their mission complete? [cough] >> can you repeat the last part of the question? sorry, the mics are not working well. >> sure. >> you talked about fighting for many years for al-qaeda and related groups. do you still consider their goals desirable or is their job done? >> there were historical circumstances that the region suffered from. then it was subject to a lot of wars that um didn't have any explanation for the youth. the u difficulties led uh people to different uh circumstances. i did not agree with al-qaeda policies. if i did, i would have continued with them. so, um i was keen for this not to go back to syria. so, um we are working so that syria is not subject to what iraq was subject to. if i was persuaded with their policies, i would have continued uh with them. i do not think that they serve people or their interests. therefore, i moved into a different uh policy. i created it and i carried um i paid the cost for it and i think that this uh choice was a good choice uh that led uh to the ousting of this criminal regime that perpetrated crimes against the syrian uh people. um therefore we um lifted the injustice of the syrian people. >> thank you very much for that. let's go to some questions. >> got a lot over here. front left. >> yes. >> but you need to wait for a microphone. >> thank you very much. so mr. president, >> please could you say who you are? >> uh mariam say uh i would like to ask you a question. um lot of us here as a journalists are concerned about as the first one who had been coming from a background that you have been excluded and designated pretty much like jerry adams and nelson mandela. do you think you can make a bridge between the east and the muslims and uh the european leader today you are in london. can you do something for gaza people self-determination? >> there's a lot of elements to that question. suffered from the same thing that the gazan people suffered from. the syrian people empathize with the people of gaza and get affected by the bombings there. but syria now is uh concerned with reconstruction and building. the damage that syria was subjected to is similar or more than that that was done in gaza. so all of us are wounded >> in the front again. >> thank you. i am isu from turkish news agency anadulu. uh mr. president israel's expansionist moves continue across the region with recent strikes already hitting. >> can you speak clearly please? >> the mics are not working well. can you please? >> uh so uh are you concerned that uh syria could be a direct targets uh after iran? also, have you had any uh contact with the iraniansized sites since the beginning of the war? thank you. okay. the question is, could syria be a direct target of iran? and has syria had direct contact with iran since this started? >> we do not have official relations with iran since the war. syria may be targeted. this is a possibility. uh we start we do not want to start aggression on anyone. we do not want syria to be an arena of war. but unfortunately today things are not governed by wise minds. um the situation is volat volatile and random policies controlled the region. this um harmed a lot of countries including gcc countries. therefore, uh we try to select um the peaceful uh situation for our for our people. so um we are not targeted and we are not um in a position to uh respond. >> thank you. gentleman right in the middle, please signal to me. i will try and get you. we've got a few minutes. just a few. you're right in the middle. yep. >> right. um muhammad met, humanitarian activist. >> muhammad. >> um can i can i speak it in arabic? can i say it in arabic? >> no. well, um if you keep it really brief. >> yeah. just >> all right. um so, uh my my question is sevenfolds. just kidding. um uh about the uh transitional justice uh in syria. um we we think that the current situation in this this uh file specifically or in this issue specifically that goes really slowly when it comes to the uh retribution and the transitional justice in in general for the crimes and and the massacres and genocide done by the regime. while we see that the the trials for the syrian coast um after after the the inquisition and the the uh the report, the last report, we we saw that trials started really quickly and also it was published public and live broadcast. c can can we see can you confirm that actually transitional justice in syria for the syrian people for what the regime has has done for for many years with all the evidence that we have it is still a priority with all funding and resources. >> thank you. thank you very much for the question for transitional justice. of course, syria as at the beginning is concerned about this. but um as this is justice, it needs to be regulated by law so that it is not um only transitional or retaliatory because it threatens civil peace. therefore, we should have a clear um legal reference for trials against people so that there is no retaliation. in addition, a large number of people committed a crimes across the past 14 years making it very difficult for any country in the world to hold accountable tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands. therefore, we have um reviewed um similar situations that other countries went through and we set criteria for accountability uh including um perpetrating mass crimes. um those who were involved in um random indiscriminate barrel bombs, shellings and so we set the criteria then we had a statistics um or we counted the wanted so that things are not left loose. we needed to have a list of names and the accusations. many of those who committed those um kinds of crimes left the country some um uh trials uh were broadcast. syria was isolated from the world um um in the past period and we were not able to um ask for those ask countries to hand over those criminals. so we cannot do this until we have official relationships and we have diplomatic relationships and embassies. syria was also out of the interpool system. therefore, we needed to be um included in the legal systems in order to be asking uh for uh those criminals to be handed over back to us. all of this is needed. so we need an infrastructure for the transitional justice. it is a route that takes time. in addition, we should not remain tense as it were using um headlines that uh would spread fear in amongst communities um where members would think they are wanted. um we are um those who were subject to this injustice. we lost our loved ones. i'm not saying this. while i was comfortable, i was um under the hammer as it were. therefore, i feel the pain of the people who suffered from those crimes. but if you have been served in justice, you are not allowed to serve injustice to to others, including those who perpetrated it. >> there are a lot of hands up and i have a firm promise to the president's people that we're going to stop that. now, let me just say there's a lot of questions online from syrians. some of them saying, "i'm young syrians." um, living outside syria saying, "what can i do to help?" so, let me ask you finally, you said yesterday in germany that you're going to try and get 80% of the syrians who move to germany, 800,000 people to go home in 3 years. how are you going to do this? um this statement is um somewhat exaggerated. i did not say this. it was um um said by others by the chancellor. he said that the return of the refugees is directly linked to the reconstruction of syria. uh european uh countries uh received the refugees and we thank them for this we should not do this by just sending uh people in airplanes to go back. they may want to leave again. this process must be managed well. the um generosity of those countries um must not be treated negatively. um refugees um have a right to return um voluntarily and with dignity. uh we um have um passed a lot of stages in this starting with the ousting or the toppling of the syrian regime which opened the door uh for the syrian refugees to return uh last year. we have received um uh more than 1.3 million uh to syria. uh some returned voluntarily to their destroyed villages and towns. second, the spirit of belonging came back to the syrian people. we have to rebuild the country, create jobs for people. the situation with which the syrian people leapt to the destination countries have changed because those people started a new lives. they have started families. they have childrens. they have commitments. so it's not easy for them to start their life from zero. and it this needs to be managed logically. uh therefore we want um to solve this through reconstruction and investment and inviting big businesses and companies um um to syria. we um um want to attract um big businesses from all the places that we visit to come and work in syria. uh we had uh business discussions with the german companies and we invited them and we told them that we um look at the syrian refugees in germany as an opportunity for syria because they have learned the way of work of the western companies and when those companies invest in syria, start business in syria, they would have a priority of employing those people if we have those right circumstances. answers. i would guarantee then that 80% of the people would return to their country to syria. >> thank you for that. and on that, i'm afraid we are going to have to stop. there's a forest of hands up. thank you for those questions. thank you enormously for your patience. thank you to the president's uh team and thank you to everyone, including outside, who made the security possible. it has not been the easiest of logistics, but we're very glad that everyone uh stayed with us. thank you, mr. president. thank you. [applause]