# YouTube Video 2lJdRmBGHGE

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2lJdRmBGHGE
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 17059 词

---

9 a.m. in shanghai, shenzhen, and here in hong kong, you're watching the china show. i'm yvon man with david and glass. >> good morning from the asia pacific. we're counting down to the opening markets in greater china. let's get to your top stories today. president trump set to deliver a prime time address on iran on wednesday. that's after declaring a two to three week timeline for ending the war. >> hopes for a deescalation in the conflict, lifting market sentiment. asian stocks and us equity futures jumping after a rally on wall street while oil is steady. >> trump meanwhile lashes out at allies telling countries facing energy shortages to quote go get your own oil with a straightfor largely closed. >> and openai's valuation tops $850 billion after a new funding round led by amazon, nvidia, and soft bank. welcome to the program. we're starting things off with some breaking news coming through out of the this is out of the journal uh that the uae is preparing to help the us open the street of hormuz by force. we'll get you more details once we have more indications of what that activity and exercise might look like. that's the headline so far that's crossed this time tomorrow. keep in mind, mark your calendars. now, uh the us president is set to address uh the us and the country and obviously in effect of course the world's in as far as their major updates in as far as iran uh is concerned. all that considered, of course, markets are looking and trying to figure out which direction we're headed here. that could be another element of good news right on the back of what we heard in the last couple hours from president trump saying two to three weeks they expect the us to exit out of this war. you also heard from you know reports from iran and the president also in some way also saying that they're looking to also end this conflict. so uh that's why you are seeing almost this sort of euphoric rally and a sharp reversal in risk across the board here today. uh going back to this the scoop though from the journal they're talking about what the uae is weighing here right now. so lobbying for the united nations security council resolution that would authorize such this action to help reopen the straight of hermuz by force. so they're reviewing how to actually play a military role in securing the strait. uh it is good to keep in mind that they have offered this before, but we'll see if there's anything comes in terms that's really kind of a more formal sort of uh declaration here. but certainly uh that is going to be the the one thing oil markets are going to be watching very closely here. if the us exits this war, can we still reopen this straight? >> yeah. well, i think the phrasing is important in what they use, right? so, donald trump said, this was before the announcement on the press on the briefing at 9:00 p.m. eastern wednesday, that the us will leave iran within 2 to 3 weeks. now, whether or not that is the same thing as ending the war might not be. so, we'll we'll see what all of that means. semantics do matter at this point in time. here's in fact what president trump said about that timeline to end that war. we'll see. and its main objective, >> i had one goal. they will have no nuclear weapon. and that goal has been attained. they will not have nuclear weapons. uh but we're finishing the job. and i think within maybe two weeks, maybe a couple of days longer to do the job, but we want to knock out every single thing they have. now, it's possible that we'll make a deal before that. >> right. so the last couple of hours there was that headline and then the one about an hour and a half back on that briefing that was scheduled is now scheduled for this time tomorrow. and markets are leading with those two things right now with risk assets continuing that rally we had in us assets overnight. asia as you can you're about to see on your screens right now is extending that rally massively. volumes are coming in quite heavily as well. taiwan is coming online. we're up 4% on that benchmark. korea is up by 5.3%. us assets coming up on your screens. here's a look at the dollar, us futures, treasury futures, and the vix index. at least the commodity and the the contract on that as well. still indicative of this appetite to take on more risk. oil prices are coming off oil. you have brent, west texas, us uh coming up on your screens as well. maybe indicative of in what way actually does that matter for oil? uh because this time yesterday we were talking about the us president wanting to end the war without opening the straight of hormuz right uh just a reminder for when you look at chinese assets overnight golden dragon index k web uh some of the big names that did lead that rally overnight flip the page again please if we can big rally there we are set to extend this rally uh when chinese markets open up and we are as you can see better by 3% there futures coming up on your screens we're also coming off quite a significant rally in as far as dollar china is concerned we are back below 690 on that pair. >> yeah, the durability of these moves is certainly going to be one thing to to look out for here, of course, as we countdown to this prime time address from president trump uh 24 hours from now. our next guest says the iran conflict may be about to move from an air war to a ground war. joining us now is robert pate, professor of political science at the university of chicago. >> yeah, he is the author of the book bombing to win and also taught air strategy to senior air force pilots and officers back in the 1990s. professor pap is also the author of a substack called the escalation trap which looks at shifting patterns in the conflict. he joins us now from chicago. professor, a pleasure to have you on the show. good morning from the asia pacific. you've modeled the bombing of the bombing of iran for the better part of two decades. you've covered uh if i'm not mistaken every single air raid in the history going back about a hundred years. help us understand what you think the us president will tell us this time tomorrow. >> um, so i think it's very nice to be on. thank you very much. there's no place it's more important to speak to than asia. asia is ground zero for the economic consequences of the iran war. the reason is simply that 80 90% of the oil coming out of the persian gulf, the straight of hormuse, heads to asia. and this is not just a shock, an oil shock. this is a structural shock to many asian economies. uh it is a supply shock because as the price of oil goes up, richer areas will be able to purchase this uh and that will leave the philippines, that will leave minimar, that will leave parts of india really in quite desperate shape. and i'm leaving out vietnam and many others. so thank you for having me on. uh so i i don't know what president trump is going to say. uh but we have to remember that when the bombing started 33 days ago. he said this was only a few days and we need to understand that he is got a very big interest in talking down the price of oil and etc etc. but on your show, just before you had me on, you just announced the uae is getting militarily involved to uh in military operations to take the straits back. uh they aren't starting tomorrow, but they're certainly moving in that direction. and we have a third aircraft carrier moving into the region. we have uh 5,000 marines, 2500 already there. another 2500 will be there in about a week. we have uh the 82nd airborne. uh what we need to understand is we need to follow not so much president trump's rhetoric as the deployment of forces. this is the number one indicator about what will happen in the future. does it predict 100% certainty? well, of course not. but it's a far better predictor than the back and forth statements of uh political leaders who have their own domestic and international political reasons for making those statements. >> yeah. and tell us more. i mean the pentagon obviously has has moved additional trips troops into the region. i think our sources have told us a third us aircraft carrier strike group is heading to the middle east as well. you know, professor, you see that there are signs that this could evolve into some sort of ground war. what are you seeing? >> that's right. so, let's just look at the history in the last year. when president trump moved forces near venezuela, he used forces in venezuela. when he moved the air armada in february near iran, he used that military force in iran. when he talked about going after greenland, he never moved forces near greenland, nothing happened in greenland. my point is that the real indicator is the movement of troops because that costs money. that's expensive. that's a billion dollar a day plus. and so you, this is why the pentagon just went to the congress for $200 billion. to me, that means they're planning for a 200 day war. now, i also want to be clear. let's say that war doesn't come. these economic problems in asia, these aren't going to be over anytime soon because uh the uae and saudi arabia, other gulf states unless they cowtow to iran, pay iran and and kick the us troops out of their countries that oil is not coming to asia. so we need to understand that there's a military battlefield and then there's the economic battlefield and what matters to asia more than anything else is the economic battlefield and that's showing no signs of improving even if president trump were to militarily pull back from the persian gulf. and i can imagine what the oil price reaction might look like once a headline crosses that even vaguely indicates the presence of ground troops. uh, professor p. now, in terms of the concept of a ground invasion can vary substantially. it can be limited control. taking thrron is a completely different proposition. not to mention the topography of that entire place, which is, you know, we almost assume that once ground forces are involved, it's mission accomplished, which is not certainly the case. lay out the scenarios you think we should be paying attention to. >> so, right now, we're talking about a halfozen small bits of land that small numbers of troops think 1,000 2,000 troops can take. and it's important to know that the issue is not which of those six or so bits of land the two or 3,000 troops might take or several of them. the issue is the two or three thousand troops cannot they can start and after two, three, four days they're out of ammo, they're out of water, they're out of food. so they can land, they can take an airport, they can take uh beaches of about a mile, mile and a half long, but they cannot hold with any sustainment whatsoever. and that means once they're there, there's not only the cost of getting them there, but once they're there, then the question is, will we just abandon them to die and be killed over the next few weeks with no ammo, no food or water, or are we going to reinforce them? so, i believe that it's not certain we'll start the the ground war. i think it's more likely than not. but more decisively, if we start even in a small way, this will go on for weeks and weeks and weeks. not just we'll try this for a few days, then we'll back off because to try it for a few days means you're leaving a thousand of our troops to die. that's just a very very unlikely scenario of all the scenarios we're describing. so can you i mean obviously the president has weighed certain options. he's talked about you know just taking the oil at car island. there's other you know sources telling us that you know there's an idea of special operations to seize iran's enriched uranium. do you think he'll go that far professor? >> well we need to understand the president has been all over the map in the last 24 hours on his truth social posts. he has said within the last 24 30 hours that he's gonna walk away. he said he's going to take all of iran's oil. um he has said he will bomb the uh daylights out of the different oil facilities. uh he's even said he'll blow up all the desalinization plants which would leave uh tens millions here without drinkable water. uh and this is really all within a tiny span of time. so i think the idea that he's sending us signals and we're going to bet the farm on what he said in the last post, this is just not realistic here. what we need to do is come up with actual indicators. that's what i do on the substack, the escalation trap. i am laying out and mapping the stages of escalation. before the war, i laid out that there was several stages of escalation before the first bomb fell. well, we went through stage one, just as the modeling said. stage two, just as the modeling said. now, we're coming up to the verge of stage three, which is that ground beginning of ground operations. and i always said, and this was back uh before the bombing started, these would always be presented as limited territorial control options. and it's because this was always going to be an incremental escalation. and that is what the modeling always showed and that is what you are seeing unfold. >> it's just what it's just the likely future. it is not the certain future. i do risk assessment not crystal ball ah gazing >> right. i would yeah i guess you allude to we do live in a real world where you you could have a factor here or two come in and maybe uh just affect the course of events. but professor final question for you. has there ever been a bombing campaign that's resulted in a strategic objective being achieved? in other words, >> is some version of >> oh, yeah. some version of ground ground invasion necessary to achieve that is is what is the closure we're looking for here? >> just so everybody knows, i've studied every air campaign for over 30 years. i've taught strategic targeting for the us air force. uh written books. you showed some of that since world war i when modern air power began. air power alone has never toppled a regime. it's never compelled a country to give up something as big as say 20% of the world's oil. we need to understand that iran now has massive geopolitical leverage. it's arm twisting all the way through. that is what will happen if it keeps the control of the straits. i'm not actually advocating for a ground war whatsoever. but this is the pressure. that's the trap in the escalation trap. it's the sucking us down. the reason is we started a air war. it hit targets but failed strategically and catastrophically because now the enemy controls more oil than any other country on the planet. it is willing to use that in vicious ways and asia is the is ground zero for the consequences of this. this is really going to hit asia as a region harder than any other part of the world. and it's because this is an economic battlefield, not just a military battlefield. and iran is in charge of the economic battlefield. >> professor, uh, we could talk all day on this. um, but thank you so much for your time. that was robert pap there, professor. >> i'm sorry i'm not more uplifting. my job is to be >> give assessments. >> i know. i know. um and and we appreciate it from the asia pacific that that uh dark picture you painted. um that was professor robert pate there. thank you for of course bringing your research to us and what he sees on this front. of course we're kind of down the open of trade in shanghai, shenzhen and hong kong. you know markets at this point in some ways is trading like this war could be over. of course what we heard from professor vape was got to think beyond just the rhetoric here right now. we got plenty more to come. this is bloomberg, right? um, have a look at how we're doing across the most popular crypto uh moves out there this year to date. it obviously hasn't been the kindest year for risk assets. bitcoin has certainly acted as a risk asset. uh, osl's coming up on your screens as well. the company reported just earnings year to date. it's coming up too. stable coin payment and trading platform listed here in hong kong. of course, a lot of the business is in hong kong. a lot is also abroad. total revenue for last year hit an all-time high 62 more than 62 million. you go down the financial statements, core operating income up 150%. so, you have a profit there. net income though, by my reading is still negative on the full year. to help us unpack that and what it means for the company moving forward. joining us exclusively is the cfo of osl group, ivan wong. ivan, good morning. with the momentum you guys are feeling right now, uh what's big for you this year? >> yeah, good morning david and ivon. thank you for having me. >> um uh we just announced a result last night, right? and uh as the market and and you can see the numbers. um uh one we deliver huge growth um last year and second uh we actually transformed our business from just a hong kong based digital asset exchange into a global stable coin payment and trading platform. if you look at our numbers um actually right now uh hong kong only accounts for less than one/ird of our revenue. uh this is a big contrast compared to a year ago where hong kong accounts for almost 100% of revenue and second uh stable coin and and payment related uh business and revenue actually accounts for more than 50% of our revenue um last year. so that was a huge change in our business model um and and uh that's also the results of all the efforts that were put in to drive global m&a uh to expand into overseas markets. um uh uh dur during the past two years and following up uh and also consistent with our our strategy right um going forward this year and also the next we will double down to build up our global stable coin payment network. our uh strategy and mission uh is clear. uh we want to build a next generation of financial market infrastructure for stable coins where we can enable our clients to move money whether it's a stable coin of yet globally uh anytime anywhere um any size and with any currencies and stable coin of their choice. uh ivan, the big question is as you of course transition into this more global stable coin payment and trading platform is whether you did at least apply or at least receive that stable coin license from hong kong. can you give us an update on on really where where that position and where that where you are right now? >> yeah. uh if you look at our business, we are we are actually more of a tob business platform, right? uh so we serve corporates, financial institutions, enterprises and also professional investors and with that um we we we actually don't need to have a uh retail facing stable coin license and and and that's why we are free to use any stable coin that out there in the market as long as um the the listing of of the stable coin uh went through a proper vetting process and that's our position. we want to be a stable coin hub um that we will allow any stable coin to trade and exchange freshness on our platform. >> okay, ivan i i i will take it correct me if i'm wrong in the way i take it. i take it that you did not apply for a license nor have you received but you can correct me of course if at some point if you think that's not accurate. so ivan tell us now well what is the liquidity like right now? uh just people want to get a sense of what the market conditions are and you have perhaps one of the best uh viewpoints on that specific uh matter. >> yeah. so when when we look at the um uh trading volume and also the stable coin exchange volume on our platform right we actually see the market is very vibrant and it's definitely growing. when we look at the volume trading on our platform for 2025, our trading volume actually grow by more than 200% year-over-year and we also see um strong start um to the first quarter of this year. um so that's u uh generally very positive for the whole sector and industry and secondly from a vc and pe funding perspective um from a discussion with um uh with the investors in asia pacific region many of them are actually very keen to continue to invest um in stable coin uh related business let it be cross payment or stable coin infrastructure and uh third also very important if you look at the um asia-pacific uh m&a deal in the wet free space, right, we continue to see um m&a deals getting done. uh bobby was sold to na in korea. we also see deals in singapore. um uh there are some local exchange got acquired as well. so with the volume that we're seeing with the vcp money they are flowing into the sector and also the consolidation that we're seeing in the exchange uh sector um i would say the overall sentiment for the sector is actually very vibrant as of today. >> i was going to talk about osl pay too. yeah, >> ivan, it seems like after 4 months of this launch, you've already been actually seeing it generate more than a quarter of your your company's revenue right now, according to your semiannual report. how important is this sort of new channel of business for you and and how do you see this business evolve as we started to see more adoption of stable coins? >> yeah. um that that that's a very good question. um osl pay um and and also the company that we acquired called bansza is very important to us and that actually forms one of one of the um three core pillar of our strategy. if you look at the stable coin space, one of the key strengths that we have is our ability to connect stable coin with the traditional finance uh system. um and that's what exactly osl pay and also bansa help us to do. um that we are we are able to provide the so-called on-off rent payment services um to web free companies globally and that is the starting point for one for the web free company to integrate with the traditional financial system and also for the traditional finance uh company uh to start to get into web free space. >> i we got to leave it there. thank you so much. ian wong there, cfo of osl group, your pre-market in hong kong is opening. it looks like we are joining in on this rally across the asia pacific and what we saw in wall street. that bounce that we saw on the back of what president trump is of course saying 2 to 3 weeks is how long it's going to take to exit this war. that prime time speech is going to be tomorrow 9:00 p.m. eastern time out of washington. you see hang sang up some 2% in the pre-market. the open is next. this is bloomberg. welcome back. you're watching the china show. we're counting down to the, as you can see, the likely gap higher across these markets at about the opening bell. it's unsurprising given the commentary that's come through out of the white house the last couple of hours. uh two to three weeks is the timeline that the us president has given for the us to pull out of iran. and of course, this time tomorrow, we will if all goes to plan, we will be unpacking what the president is set to say. this important this major update on iran. >> yeah, that prime time address is going to be quite interesting to watch as we countdown to what you know this open and of course how asia markets react to that. but it's not just the us, right? we also heard from media about you know iran's president is also willing. it's it seems like both sides are in some ways looking at some sort of offramp. i think that's why you're seeing this sort of rally take place here right now. so stocks are up, dollar unwinds, treasuries are bid here, and us basically the s&p had the best day since may of 2025. so uh we're following that sort of trend here today in the asia pacific. uh you see massive rebounds in in markets like korea, like japan, like taiwan. korea certainly needed it given that it was flirting with correction territory. um but there china looking a little bit better but relatively speaking uh not as well right so we're up about 1% csi 300 uh is around that 4500 level here uh you're watching shanghai crude obviously and is following the price of brent and following the price of wti lower we're we're seeing futures down some 7%. uh the shanghai futures seem to be moving quite a bit but in terms of what we saw in oil markets it it has dropped but not as much i would say just given that there's still a lot of uncertainty around the status of the straight of horses. who just had that journal line come through that the uae may now be weighing some options on trying to reopen the straight of hormuz by force. so there you go, more elements and headlines to talk about, but for the most part, markets are trading like, you know, perhaps the end is in sight. and really what's been dragging is what's really leading this sort of rally is the growth. it's the tech space, right? the these really beaten down sort of sectors during this conflict for the last 3, four, five weeks. take a look at when it comes to the chip space, for example. cabricon tech is up close to 3% here right now. let's hook the boards and take a look at how hong kong fares here because certainly that's going to be one thing to watch. uh keep in mind poc, they also came up with a statement yesterday and it's the first time they've actually addressed some of the concerns around inflation, the energy shocks as well given the external sort of shocks that the chinese economy might also feel. it kind of echoes what we heard from christine lagarde uh overnight as well. but then again, markets are just trading like it's it's good news all around. we're seeing 2% gains on hang sang, hstech and msei china here. uh we're seeing the dollar unwind, right? given the positioning around, you know, the safe haven and the like. uh you are seeing some gains come back to some of the em currencies. rem is back below that 690 level as you see 68856. but the tech space there you go is on fire. tens, alibaba, bu, maidtoan, xiaomi all seeing gains of more than 2% here. properties one to know here. we have gotten some wonka country garden. a lot of them have reported it as well. that's one thing to watch out for here today. wonka is the one uh today. let's take a look at the stock here. so, uh there it when it came to what it looked like, i mean, it didn't look that good in terms of the earnings, right? when you take a look at what wonka was, uh writing about and what they're talking about here today. so, 12.8 billion loss and we're still talking about some bomb maturities that are looming. but then again, we're seeing the stock up close to 2% here this morning. uh, leap motor, there was some news here when it came to a stakeholder. so, major holders are boosting their stakes uh with $230 million hong kong dollars worth of purchases. a stock also up this morning. >> yeah, there we go. uh, two and a half%. so, those are the two stocks we've obviously flagged that we'll talk about. apart from that, just keep in mind this income dividend story has also been something that investors have latched on to given all the uncertainty. so things like the csi 300 banks index, csi 300 dividend index have done very well amidst the war that's been taking place that really uh royd uh markets. apart from that we're watching things like turnover amid this bound southbound flows. how much of that is coming through from the mainland and being fueled by that? nike giving out some rather discouraging guidance as it pertains to revenues and growth this part of the world. we talked about that, you know, brief look at some earnings coming through. it's also kind of important as far as data goes. uh not that it would matter in in in norm in as big a way as normal days would would merit. uh but just to give you a sense of what's coming up. so you have the pmi data coming. this is a private survey coming out in about 12 minutes. hong kong retail sales end of the day and you also have macau march casino revenue numbers coming through as well um at some point today. can we see the graphic? uh right there we go. okay. um, apart from that, where are we on this? we are obviously seeing this massive bounce today. what a way to end just a terrible month. um, not april fools, of course. this is really what's happened across >> uh what's happened. but yeah, u >> april fools maybe. i don't know. right. it's it's almost like vigilant today. yes. >> that you know, the day that president trump announces this big prime time address that is talking about he wants to end the war in two or three weeks. um that this is all happening on a day like today and and markets are still taking it as as pleasantly surprising and good news, right? let's bring in mark cranfield, m strategist. uh watching all the the price action for us. i mean, we're seeing, you know, equities risk assets are soaring here. dollar dollar's back down, oil's back down. i mean, is is is this all really over, mark? well, i think we've discussed before that equity traders are inherently the most optimistic people in the trading community. so, any opportunity for them to jump in and buy stocks, they they will do it. and it's not too surprising considering that wall street rallied so aggressively last night. uh march was a horrible month as you were you were saying. it's the beginning of a new new month, new quarter. people have got fresh p&l situations. they'll be looking at what they think is relative value in markets. no wonder you're seeing a lot of investors jump in today. i suspect that april is going to be just as bumpy as as march. there is still so much to fix before people can really see that there's going to be a lot of clarity. i mean just overnight look at christine lagard. she was calling out scott bessant saying that don't think you can fix the problems in the hormuz strait and the industry around the oil in the middle east just in a couple of days. it's going to take a very long time. so christine lagard is implying that she thinks we're going to be stuck with oil high oil prices for a long time. even if the united states does withdraw its troops um fairly quickly, it that is not going to change the situation in terms of the distribution of oil and the pricing for for quite a long time. and of course, don't forget iran themselves have put forward its own plans. they've got points that they want to to have addressed, including it sounds as though they want to be able to put tariffs on the ships that go through the the hormoo strait under their control. so investors have a lot to digest and it suggests that the inflation picture is going to remain high. that has to be priced back into markets, which of course was not the case before all of this started. >> i can't help but think about what it means for asia. mark, i mean, our guest a few minutes ago really highlighting the fact that a lot of what goes through the straight of hormuz comes to the asia pacific, whether that's energy, whether that's fertilizer and what have you. and it it's almost as if obviously we can debate the political objectives that led to why we're here, but most of that bill that is being, you know, that, you know, that other table that's ordering all that expensive stuff, the, you know, that poor fellow on the back end of that restaurant is being sent the bill for this. and when you look at this rally across asia pacific today, i wonder how much i can actually trust the em complex, the em component to this to this rally today, mark. >> well, we just had um our colleague garfield reynolds just written on the on the blog himself saying exactly what you're saying there. he's got he's skeptical about how long this can last and rightly so. it was the i think it was the singapore foreign minister just a couple of weeks ago said that this has become an asian crisis. and he's what he was trying to say is that asia, as you say, is so exposed in so many areas. and we're already seeing price hikes across the board. here in here in singapore, we've got taxi companies increasing their prices. we're going to have from today, we're going to have electricity prices going up for consumers. now, you look around some of the other countries, they're already having people rationing how much petrol they're allowed to have and their shortages already. so, it's only just starting. it is not going to be fixed anytime soon. asia is going to be suffering for a long time. this all has to be priced in to markets. it will continue to be so for quite a while now. one of the effects of course is that it's going to keep asian currencies on the defensive. we today we're seeing the us dollar slightly lower against some of the major currencies. but that's just relatively minor within the context of the big picture here. the em currencies are up against the wall and they're going to stay pretty weak for a while. look at the indian rupee heading towards 100. that's just one example. now, if you think of uh there a lot of talk about what jerome power said this week and some people getting excited because maybe there's still a chance for the fed to lower interest rates. just look at where the 10-year us treasury yield is. we're still way above 4% on us treasury. recently, almost got to 4.5. the it's going to be very difficult for long-term treasury yields to come down when oil prices are around $100. even if they slipped to $90, that's still way too high compared to the $60 we had at the beginning of the year. so, treasury yields going to stay firm. traders are not going to give up on the idea that there's long-term inflationary consequences here. all of that is negative, especially for asia because high treasury yields equate to weak currencies across the region. that will impact economic growth. that will impact people's confidence in what's going on in asia. all in all, this is not going to be settled just within a couple of days. as much as president trump may wish it to be so, asia is going to be suffering for a lot longer. >> mark, thank you so much. sobering note, mark cranfield in singapore for us. let's take let's take you down the anxiety ladder and talk about chinese property. now, china bank posting this record 122.8 billion loss last year, a sign of deepening problems facing the company ahead of this wall of upcoming uh debt maturities. joining us here is patrick wong, our bloomberg intelligence senior analyst to just give us his take on what you made of the earnings and just the viability really of the wall of maturity and everything else that we talk about when it comes to the company. yeah, i think the challenge right now is that for this company we see the problem over the past two years the loss is really sizable now versus like the year before and then the challenge i think is about the maturity right so happening this year that will also bring up potential risk on like i think possible solution um could be like for example whether like the tri the central metro u if they can really um cover up inject some cash on that which is is really depends because is they they not really cover a state own company versus like try to resources land try to overseas land that kind of things right >> so whether the the cash inestion will happen or not it depends and then there will also be another things about like for example they hold some stick on glp whether they could sell the stick like the glp is also potentially have a ipo happening in hong kong this year we'll see how it goes but this is again, it's also related to trial logistics, which is also a really favorable sector at this point. so, overall, still a bit challenging for for the company. >> yeah, there's still concerns about the deterioration, the balance sheet, but but overall, i mean, what what do you look at the earnings and the fundamentals, right? i mean, rig property sales and the like. i mean, what's your outlook for the company in terms of that that front? for the week sales i think still challenging because for the for the major companies here right when you as a like potential home buyers you prefer to buy on some developers they really um well established which can like deliver the home to you versus like i think there's also potential default risk happening so whether you're going to buy homes there it really depends and honestly we see the home sales decline by like about 50% year over years already for frankie so it's a bit challenging for them to sustain the really um sizable cash liquidity to support the overall um the business momentum. >> all right, patrick, we'll leave it there. patrick wong there, our bloomberg intelligence senior analyst joining us there on w. uh we have much more coming up. this is my birth. show. a former president of bu says that ai tokenization is actually exploding uh in the chinese market. uh jang ya shin is well now runs the institute of ai industry research at tinua university in beijing and he told us that this so-called tokconomics will help chinese engineers work around high-end chip shortfalls. >> chip wise, china is behind but in terms of electricity uh china is ahead in terms of the ai plus the application. china is little bit ahead in those but china is behind in chips. china is behind the in probably the frontier models. uh but it's different you know china in in the frontier models china take a opensource or openw wheat approach uh and so the the chinese model is uh open and also it's more economical. the token is cheaper by almost order of magnitude. daily token use in china has grown more than 1,400 times to over 140 trillion. yes. >> in march alone from 100 billion. >> yeah. uh this is uh it's remarkable, right? uh and and and this token is not only used by you know from within china and also by around the world right you know if you look at this is used by europe this is used by southeast asia and this is used by a lot of the startups in in united states >> mckenzie's joe ny was telling me at the china development forum it's become one of china's biggest exports >> that's right >> and tariff proof >> that's right well the the thing good thing here is that you're able to produce those tokens right right from from china. use the electricity here, use the data center here, use the model here, use the the chip here, use the full stack here and then you you can you know uh uh you know export the capability tokens and benefit uh people around the world. the whole notion of one person company or company requires very few people uh is is very exciting because rhino with that if you have access toking right you you're able to pretty much do everything you you know use the coding agent um and you just tell them >> you build your own ai exactly >> what is it yang longa >> la that's right >> the raising your own lobster that was the open claw moment that is opening up opportunities ities for these one person companies. >> that's right. there's overwhelming uh enthusiasm to to to embrace this new technologies. open cloud obviously is a wonderful open-source uh product phenomena. uh but you know if you look at there in china there are at least a dozen different versions of of of cloud different kind of clouds >> and they actually work better than the original open cow. uh so this is a form of agency right the agent that's able to autonomously implement your task not only to you know have a dialogue like this but also able to to you know take actions and do things for you that is the next mega trend of uh of ai agentic ai >> how many generations behind would you say china is right now with the big data center gpus that you just talked about >> i would say probably you know i'm a i'm not an expert on chips but i would say probably two generation behind. uh but if you look at overall right this is uh uh a system system engineering uh you have to look at uh the not only perchip performance per chip but also the collective performance of many many chips uh and and the networking you know the the memory uh and the whole thing right and the end result is the quality and uh the uh price of the token you produce right. >> uh i think you know china is uh very competitive. >> okay, that was the uh former president at byu there speaking with steve of course our chief north asia uh correspondent. okay. uh just to i guess in some ways almost complete the cast and appe my numbers. this is the rating dog manufacturing gauge. yeah, the private gauge uh was you know still still expansion but we are seeing misestimates here. so 50.8 for the china pmi manufacturing private gauge here. this of course you square that what we saw yesterday in the official manufacturing pmi numbers which were also uh quite resilient right above 50 and does actually uh see a sort of a resilient sort of trend across the asia pacific. we did get all these pmis from the region uh this morning. all of which were actually still in expansion mode. uh with the exception, i would say of australia. that was the first contraction we've seen in 5 months for the pmi numbers there. but the tongan survey from japan was also a standout there as well. the outlook seemed to be better than expected as well. >> there you go. yeah. pmi purchasing managers index to pretty meaningfully impressive. there we go. um, also i think is pretty meaningfully uh impressive is the ability for markets to forget that we are in a war and you just have to look at the rally that we're seeing today as perhaps evidence of that. but of course that is backward looking. we are hoping that we have turned a corner on this. markets are rallying quite substantially here in the asia pacific. uh us futures do we have asian markets too to show european futures are up 1.8. we're coming off, of course, a substantial rally in the cash markets in the us. 85% of stocks in the s&p closed higher. volumes are about 15% heavier than usual. so, this rally did have some proper hot sauce behind it. lots more ahead. this is the china show. in some corporate news this morning, nike shares slipped despite beating sales expectations due to concerns the war in iran could worsen weakness in the region that includes europe and the middle east. the sportsware giant posted fiscal third quarter revenue of 11.3 billion dollars, above estimates, but flat year-over-year. sales for both the converse brand and ema region missed estimates. huawei's growth decelerated last year as apple's iphone 17 made headway in china and domestic challengers emerged in ai chipm. the maker of smartphones and chips reported a 2.2% rise in 2025 revenue to $126 billion. that increase was down sharply from about 22% the year before. unilver has agreed to combine its food business with mccormick in a nearly $45 billion merger. the spice maker will pay almost $16 billion in cash and the equivalent of over $29 billion in shares or most of unilver's food unit, which includes brands like french's mustard, nor cubes, and helman's mayonnaise. this leaves unilver and its shareholders with a 65% stake in the combined entity. >> that's a very strange sandwich if you use all of that in one, but just to give you >> i was asking you to put it together. >> the varied product line there. uh, of course, mccormick. um okay let's um have a look at how we're doing across these you know this whole this is something by the way that i think people should be watching as a beginning of a trend. so this uh china being able to sell the tokens effectively laying out that infrastructure ai infrastructure to the rest and it's really playing out across some of the ai plays. not to mention it's also there's al also an earnings component uh to some of these names you see on your screens. very quickly golds uh gold names in china coming up bottom of the screens is the actual gold price. gold futures last we checked uh jin and some of the big names are going to come up. there we go on your screens joining in on this rally we're seeing across the region as with of course gold price which is up but not quite back at uh 5,000 core defense ripping higher. um a couple of things here i think for one this journal report on the uae um that's a report still by the way um is is pushing of course to i guess take the hormuz uh by force. uh we'll get more on that in a moment. but as you can see, we're up subst markets already running with the story quite substantially and of course some of these big names like hana systems is really very exposed to what's going on there uh to that part of the world. uh asia is doing quite nicely. i think you really have korea and taiwan leading the gains on price. but it's also worth pointing out right korea and taiwan have been really sold off uh by foreign money and foreign investors these last few days or so. so i think it's just maybe just buying this opportune dip. we'll see. >> yeah, i mean outflows have been quite substantial. i think even bigger than even the likes of of india uh given what foreign uh investors have done and we were flirting with bare market territory for the cost, right? so uh they certainly needed this sort of rebound and you're seeing it with some of these growth names, some tech names here today and the ai trade seems to be back on fire here today on the back of course uh of some of those headlines that we're getting when it comes to iran. so, uh, we'll have a lot more on the way in the next hour. you're watching the china show. welcome back to the china show. here's a look at the hsi half hour into the session. of course, china has been joining in on this global stock rally, a rebound. how durable these moves are going to be is certainly the key question here as we countdown to this prime time address from president trump about you know 23 hours from now here an update when it comes to the iran situation. he's talked about what they could exit this war in two to three weeks. iran's president according to some reports say that they are also willing. so you're getting some constructive sort of comments coming through from both sides here the last 24 hours dave. >> yes absolutely and i think markets are going with it with very very heavy volumes too. um, i i don't trust it though. i don't trust it. the move in the markets. and here's why. here's why. so, if if the president tells us mission accomplished, the situation on the ground certainly doesn't look like it. if he's about to announce some massive offensive, while that could mark the start to the end of the war, markets need to get used to headlines, bad headlines that come after that. and then you have news of of what the journal is reporting the uae wants to join in >> in terms of reopening the straight of horm moves by force that could also lead to a lot of risks as well just given that could also escalate tensions with iran. um so certainly that does that mean oil markets will stay elevated for some time? obviously that's going to be a key question to watch. we got ubs's dominic sher joining us in just a few moments. but markets are taking it like look it's good news. we'll take it for at least today. nick a is up some 4%. cosby is up 6% here right now. taiwan also following through here today and you are seeing that you know it could be a good wednesday morning for the us. when it comes to europe as well could be waking up to that good news as well. we continue to see those futures uh trending higher this morning especially euro stock 50 uh we're up close to 2%. though you know those harsh words from christine lagard was quite telling here really kind of um in some ways getting back and and and really saying what scott besson was saying that it's not true. you know the economic scarring is already there. um bread markets, crude markets looking like this. here we're seeing up slightly here again. so we've come off some of the initial sort of lows i guess of the asia session. here we're hovering around 105 102 for wti. shanghai crude though still lower by about 7 uh% here. the dollar also has started to unwind just a bit here during the asia session. >> uh we spoke this time in the last hour with professor robert p. he's the political science expert. of course, he's mapped out in case you follow. >> he didn't miss his words either. >> no, he was quite blunt about it. this escalation trap that he's published by the way. uh you can read about that of course in other platforms, but effectively here's what he had to say about where we go next with the conflict uh this iran war. uh he is with with of course the university of of chicago. >> the real indicator is the movement of troops because that costs money. that's expensive. that's a billion dollar a day plus. and so you this is why the pentagon just went to the congress for $200 billion. to me, that means they're planning for a 200 day war. i believe that it's not certain we'll start the the ground war. i think it's more likely than not, but more decisively if we of our troops to die. that's just a very, very unlikely scenario of all the now, president trump says he now expects the war to end within about 3 weeks, this time tomorrow. he is set to address the nation and the world, of course. uh joining us to talk us through this and where we are and perhaps what to expect there out of dubai uh and bring in our horizons middle east and africa, anchor uh joanna beti there. uh joanna, good morning. uh early your time of course. thank you so much again as always. what expectation should we should one have ahead of tomorrow ahead of the president's speech tomorrow? >> yeah. well, uh the as you say uh the uh trump administration and trump himself will be giving a speech this time tonight. so 9:00 p.m. uh uh us time. but i will say that the market obviously is reacting to his comments. he's given that time frame of 2 to 3 weeks. uh i will also just caveat that in general he tends to give that time frame quite a lot when he's talking about pretty much anything. but in this case he says that uh that is the time frame for how much longer he expects this war to go. but then two additional comments that caught my attention. the first is once again making that delinkage between their military operations and the reopening of the straight of hormos. this was explicitly uh referred to in that wall street journal article yesterday that moved markets. but once again, he seems to suggest that once their military operations are wound down, the straits will then invariably be reopened and because other allies, other countries around the world, including china, will have a vested interest in getting the straits reopened. so there's sort of an assumption there that once the war ends, the straits will somehow reopened. that was the first point. and the second point is he also uh doesn't seem uh doesn't necessarily seem to imply that a deal will have to be made in that time frame. he went on to say you know there's a 2 to 3 week time frame. we could do a deal in that time frame or not. but ultimately the reason he's giving that time frame is because they deem their military operations to have been so successful that most of the objectives will have been achieved. and just a reminder what those objectives are, eliminating iran's uh full offensive defensive capabilities, diminishing the navy, and of course ensuring that they won't ever obtain a nuclear weapon. so he seems to think at least the way trump is framing this is that it will take another two to three weeks for those for those military objectives to achieve. but i just also want to say one more thing which is in line with what your guests on the show said a bit earlier. let's not forget there are troops in the region and according to our own reporting a third carrier ship left the us yesterday. it's now on the way to the region as well. this is the uss george whw bush. it will take two three weeks to just even arrive to the region. so be mindful of that as well. >> yeah. the journal also has reported that the uae i is looking at options of really reopening the straight of hormuz by force. um obviously with with the uae joining in on this potentially what sort of risk could that carry? so when we were talking about this wall street journal reporting yesterday visav uh the street of hormos and sort of separating that issue from from the military objectives uh one thing that we did also say was that the uae out of all of the countries in the gulf states have been the most outspoken. uh they've said many times that iran's hold over the strait is akin to economic terrorism that no one country in the world should have this much authority over the vessels that pass through. and of course they have a vested interest being one of the largest producers of oil in the region as well. and so it increasingly the language has become a lot more impatient uh and slightly more bellose i will say over the course of the last few weeks. so overnight, the wall street journal once again reporting that the uae could be the first gulf arab state to get involved in this war, not necessarily by deploying troops or anything, but uh by lobbying for un security council action that would authorize them to help with the reopening of the straits, maybe help with the uh exercise to sweep the straight from mines. uh an alternative alternatively uh and this is a us official sorry a a a uae official that's being quoted in the wall street journal article is saying that perhaps one way that the us could look to reimpose some authority of the strait is by taking over the so-called disputed islands. these are a handful of islands. there are three islands very close to the straight of hormuz that iran claims sovereignty over and uh there's some you know this goes back four decades with the uae they claim that they have sovereignty over and so one way that the us could perhaps be positioned closer to that straight is by reclaiming authority over those islands. so, so those are a couple of options being put forward, but ultimately here i think you know this is about what happens once the war ends in order to ensure the free passage of vessels through that straight of horus. one of the options being put forward is the uae getting involved as well. >> jumanna, thank you jim bashetti. there our horizon's middle east and africa anchor joining us out of dubai. let's bring in dominic schneider now, head of global commodities and forex at ubs global wealth management cio. dominic, great to have you back in town. perfect timing really to talk about these latest headlines. oil markets are focusing on deescalation today. but as we just talked about, right, reopening the straight of hormuz is still a big question mark here right now. what's your base case? >> so, if you look at our base case here, that falls actually in line what donald trump was saying. we're looking at a confrontation still in the next two to four weeks. but i think it's investors should not just focus on the base case. obviously, that comes with uncertainty. that's probably more of a 50% chance, but there's still a 30% chance that things continue for a prolonged period of time. so, i think we should not neglect that environment. and i think in that environment, we also need to think about that the oil market is probably a little bit complacent really thinking supply is going to come back. the reality is we do have lost 10 million barrels per day probably thereabout if you look at all the different offsetting factors and that means demand destruction and higher prices. what's your assessment of that? that that's very important. i think to what extent the light, you know, the lights don't switch just back on if if things ended tomorrow. >> uh in terms of the damage to infrastructure, how how much oil has has been taken offline at least for several months? >> well, i think this is still a little bit unclear. i would expect that the bulk of of supply is going to be back in case we reopen up uh i would say within the first six months. so, i think that's that's that's feasible. um that should bring prices down. but i think at this point in time, i'm a little bit more skeptical, you know, that things do change quite dramatically. um if you think about all the outages that we have, you know, it's unseen that we have so much supply, such a supply shock and yet prices are not even higher than 2022. so the market is complacent thinking that things normalize quite quickly. and i think that complacency is a risk factor for markets still. so, so if it's they're complacent, where do you think prices should be right now? >> so, i think if you just look at inventory dynamics for example and what we see in terms of reduction, then i think 120 shortterm is is more of a a level. and then obviously if situation would drag on for longer, we're talking 150 and above. so i think that's a little bit the more realistic price that i think given the issues that we have on the supply side and also draw down in inventory that probably more reflect the need towards reduced demand. >> i mean folks are probably thinking i should have hedged and think folks are probably thinking at 115 if prices can get to 160 i still should hedge even though it's expensive. what is the this is a reminder of just hedging strategies isn't it? and what's your advice? no, absolutely. i think in this environment, you want to think about tail risk and i think you can tap the option market for example in oil to protect yourself against unpleasant spikes even beyond 150 levels. uh that obviously comes with a price. it's not going to be free, but i guess your bulk of your exposure in your portfolio is going to be risk on anyhow. so having that kind of protection is really just um some form of mitigating. the other part is i still like gold. i know hasn't really worked in in recent days and weeks, but i still think a second round effect of that war will lead to higher gold prices. so, that's one way. and beyond the commodity angle, think about hedge funds. think about the alternative landscape which actually performed pretty well in 2022. >> yeah. can you tell us why gold hasn't worked um you and what would it take for that sort of safe haven sort of appeal to reemerge once again for gold? so maybe first i mean in an environment where people look for liquidity step one two rates go up and the dollar is on the stronger side you look at how gold behaves with all the three factors that's not an environment where gold really performs. it's fair to say that we may be you know gold is a little bit victim of of its own success because there was a lot of positioning in the first place but i would expect as the market focus more on the damage to growth if that element comes in a little bit more forcefully. i know we haven't seen that in the pmis that we uh have seen recently but i think that can change quite quickly. so once the market focus on the slowdown a little bit more then i think people start to say okay uh you know there's not going to be any rate hike. in fact longer term there might be rate cuts still on the table when it comes to to the fed. so i think that element gives gold the next push higher again. >> interesting. i like how you brought up the the most recent i guess example or playbook that we can brush off which is 2022. yeah. >> and what's worked in what ways do you think this this episode is is the same and in what ways do you think is different about about likely what and you know there's a lot we don't know just to caveat that too. >> yeah. i think we need to understand that into 2022 we came with an economy that wasn't steroids. i mean we did a lot of fiscal stimulus uh back then also on the on on the monetary policy side and then we had the the supply shock uh from from the covid period and then at the end we got the the the higher energy prices. so i think it was not just a double, it was a a triple whammy effect. so from that perspective and we in a different situation today where this inflation in the first place i think the ability from central banks or let's say from governments to do a lot of stimulus is limited too. so you might have to pass through to consumers might quickly and the q consumer in itself you know back then had a lot of firing power that's probably gone today as well. so i think we we feel the pain probably quicker and i think that should motivate central bank to look through uh that kind of inflation shock that we have right now. >> okay. um obviously i'm sure you've been busy. we we only talked about oil and gold. i mean i've seen concerns about supply disruptions in aluminum, helium, >> fertilizer. i mean where are we seeing the fundamentals where you actually start to see those supply constraints really kind of come through? i mean where are you seeing the most sort of stress from that? well, definitely when you think about the industrial metals, uh aluminum is one f factor. i mean 40% is energy cost and energy costs have gone across the board. so not just in oil but some of the other um coal for example which has gone up. so here we're looking at aluminum pricing heading to 3,750. so there's still a little bit more to go. well copper obviously negatively impacted. i want to think about the second round effect because after that is over people going to think how come we going to be a little bit more independent of fossil fuels. so let's push the green narrative and that means we need more copper and so we're still having the 15,000. so i do like copper but that's probably the story is going to perform a little bit later into that uh situation that we have right now. and as for agriculture, i think the knock on effect is going to be a little bit longer because i mean you probably already have your fertilizer, but for the next planting and prices have gone up, you might use a little bit less. that might mean that less supplies is on the table. so i think there's a a more longer knock- on effect, particularly on the agriculture side. >> on on the dollar, dominic, what does positioning look like to you at this point in time? >> well, things have flipped quite a fair bit. you know people were basically uh very negative dollar and now people are positive makes a lot of sense we do have it positive terms of trade talk for the us you can even say you know 10% up in oil prices that gives you at least 0.5% up in the dollar so each day or oil prices move higher that's the support factor um and if people look for liquidity they look for go they look for the dollar as well so i think the various reason the dollar remains strong uh does that mean the dollar is going to be great currency for the next 12 to 24 months probably not. we still have a lot of issues down the road excessive spending etc. so some of the structural negative still going to haunt the greenback in the longer term. maybe some of the rally is an opportunity to curb some dollar exposure. those who couldn't do it uh last year get a second chance. >> okay. uh dominic, thank you so much. very nice to see you sir. thank you so much uh for all the insights there. domination schneider their head of global wealth management cio right uh just ahead open ai valuation get this topping $850 billion dollar massive funding round you have the likes of nvidia soft bank and amazon involved more on that transaction next bloomberg all right, we've been focusing a lot on tech in this rebound and certainly one good news and or a big development that we've seen when it comes to open ai, right? they've closed its largest funding round to date as a company pushes to acquire more chips, data centers, and talent. for more, let's bring in our asia tech correspondent, annal jewelers. she's here with us right now. we're talking more than $120 billion of fundraising here. >> $850 billion valuation. i mean >> explosive numbers. >> yeah. yeah. really, really big numbers. they are really eye popping. yeah. >> no april fool's joke here. >> that's very true. actually, april 1st, but this is something that's actually been in the works for months and and we've been talking about the players involved in this. they're still the ones who've been reporting on which is amazon, softbank, and nvidia. so yeah, $122 billion being raised just to break it down. so $50 billion of that came from amazon. and i think it's really worth noting the caveats around this because $35 billion of that is linked to open ai either going public. so they have to go down that ipo path or uh they can also reach agi which artificial general intelligence probably the ipo sounds easier at this point. uh nvidia and soft banks, they're $30 billion each. that takes us to the $110 billion mark which leaves $12 billion left and that came uh from a few different channels but but including names like andre and horowits abu dhabi's mgx uh d shore ventures tpg tro price so lots of well-known names in the mix for this. uh yes, openai is saying essentially that this gives them a lot of flexibility now to to work on building out ai infrastructure and as you said getting the right talent as well, but it is a big focus or push now for the company to try and in increase their revenue generation because overnight they said they're at $2 billion a month. uh but they are certainly working on trying to streamline their products and increase that as well. 2 billion was also the figure. uh this is this goes to the nvidia transaction with marvel which was one of the biggest if not i think the biggest percentage gain overnight. >> yeah, it was marvel had a really big move overnight in the session on this and actually nvidia was also high. so it's important i mean these are chip both chip link companies but but they operate in different parts of the ai infrastructure technology stack essentially. so nvidia is working on on well mainly gpus but marvel is more about c connectivity um custom silicon as well. so so yeah different parts of the ai stack but essentially yes it's a $2 billion investment and these two companies are also saying they're going to be working on what's called silicon photonics together. well just in a headline level it's essentially about uh infrastructure that can speed up data transmission using less energy. so this is sort of seen as a potential breakthrough in the ai infrastructure space. uh but yes, big news. you saw the gainers there overnight. and uh yeah, the the the company marvel ceo essentially going on cnbc saying it's not a question of marvel versus nvidia. it's it's really not a zero sum game. they're trying to increase and broaden out that ecosystem and adoption. >> it used to be marvel versus dc, but that's that's a different that's a different thing, guys. all right. all right. bel, thank you. >> you've lost me, actually. >> okay. okay. >> why did you get it? well, that ivonne can explain to you. i guess >> dc marvel superhero. >> sorry. okay. >> no, no, no. i meant dc. >> dc comics. >> dc comics. yes. okay. okay. >> superheroes. i was trying to explain it. >> sorry. sorry. >> let me mansplain something here. >> bill, thank you so much. uh, i'll look at markets before we take a short break. and we'll take a short break. i think we need it right now. all right, some more earnings to tell you about here this morning. nike shares slipped despite beating sales expectations due to concerns the war in iran could worsen weakness in the region that includes europe and the middle east. the sportsware giant posted fiscal third quarter revenue of 11.3 billion dollar above estimates but flat year-over-year. sales for both the converse brand and ema region missed uh estimates there. yeah. and also the china business didn't look too good either. let's talk about china wanka posted a record 12.8 billion loss last year, marking its second fullear loss since its ipo in 1991. it shows a deepening problems facing the developer ahead of a wall of upcoming upcoming debt maturities. wonka is seeing a long-term debt resolution plan and pledging to find new sources of funding this year. huawei's growth decelerated from about 22% the year before. >> right. uh let's have a look at these big movers. tech is i think very front and center today given the magnitude of the gains and given the fact that you are of course getting the heaviest and biggest ops on benchmarks moving and dancing this way. you are going to get this sort of oomph in these markets. 10.2 on samsung. sk highix is just behind as well. tsmc's up by 4 and a.5%. it. keep in mind we're coming off of quite a substantial outflows from these names as well. uh just i guess as backdrop there uh benchmarks and how does this translate to their respective benchmarks and across the region unsurprising 6.6% on a cosby and nick is headed towards the lunch break. we'll recap some of the ten can numbers which came out earlier on next. this is bloomberg 11:29 a.m. in tokyo. the japanese markets are hanging out at lunch break in just a moment. could be a happy day if you're long these markets and finally looking for some relief uh when it comes to stocks here this morning. take a look at how the nik a225 is doing. we're up some 4% here on of course headlines of what what president trump has said about you know exiting this war in two to three weeks. iran's president seems to be willing to do so. also that tonan survey also in terms of you know the data and the like were actually looking pretty good as well. right. so the outlook for some of the manufacturers was also uh quite positive. 158 when it comes to dollar yen here and we're talking about your 10ear jgb at 233. >> okay. um pmis were also out um just in terms of the recap there. so you had a rating dog uh on china and of course the others uh for across the region and not to also mention we have retail sales coming through out of hong kong and macau march casino revenues. and as you can see mostly uh beating estimates mostly in fact coming in above that threshold of where you are except with the exception of oz uh that threshold of 50 right this is really good context um given this let's let's call it this debate on where the economy is because the numbers are showing the economies are still holding up and i think the consumer confidence numbers in the us did also show you something similar there so the context there is you then have ecb president christine lagarde is said to have challenged us secretary treasury secretary scott besson's optimism that this uh war in iran and the fallout will be actually shortlived. now sources say that that happened during his meeting of high level g7 officials after bessent played down the economic damage. now lagarde is said to have warned that the effects will be felt for a long time because so much has been destroyed. meanwhile, you also heard from the pbc, the central bank of china acknowledging the country is facing external shocks as the iran war rattles the global economy. in a statement following a quarterly monetary policy committee meeting, the pboc noted uncertainty in the inflation outlook for major economies, but it signaled no change to its policy stance, reiterating that it will keep liquidity ample and overall financing costs low. and as the iran war drags on, concerns about a global recession are mounting and any slowdown could weigh on china's export engine. let's bring in shulie ren, a bloomberg opinion columnist. she's been writing about this and joins us now. obviously, everyone talks about cheap energy. there's token sort of exports now that seems to be uh keeping things going in china. but then again, you also talk about there are still some risks, external shocks to the economy. uh absolutely like what uh based on what we have seen the past couple years uh china's export uh in uh electric vehicles can be a very political issue and then there there is also talk of uh uh china's uh leveraging its uh cheap cost of electricity to export the ai tokens now that we we have moved on to the application stage of uh ai development and people are using a lot more tokens but i think that's also very dangerous just imagine americans are using um data centers in western china thousands of miles away that's going to lead to congressional investigations and the uh absolute usage bands. uh my argument is that the china as the uh world's biggest factory should look into more traditional sectors for instance toys uh you know just very simple accessories etc because uh if you just look at china there's nowhere else in the world that has this kind of scale if you have something that looks a little bit like a labubu that is going to take a hit they're going to make 10,000 versions of it and i think this is the area the traditional area where china's exports are going to hold up quite well. >> and you have a real good example of this, which is santa, it's known as santa's factory, right? ew. >> ew. yes. >> yeah. talk to us about the numbers we're seeing there. >> well, uh the the ew uh suppliers, they um they they they they basically didn't really care about trump's tariffs. last year, uh exports from eu still rose uh 20%. and the uh in the first two months of the year uh exports uh from eu was also holding up very well growing more than last year's but the last uh uh in in march in the month of march uh suppliers uh they say that uh one of their most priced clients uh basically uh suppliers from the middle east they practically disappeared. people who were in eu, they were rushing to find flights home and a lot of them just couldn't come and that really dented one of the china's biggest strong selling points basically selling to the global south right with air traffic so expensive now and with uh middle east a big chunk of the business not coming to china vendors are getting a little bit more nervous about the war than the the trump's tariffs another another problem is that the china is a manufacturing powerhouse and they do rely on cost of raw materials. some vendors of construction materials, they are cutting back on production because they don't know how much i don't know copper or aluminum or all these raw materials will cost. that's also hurting china. >> yeah. you've been also writing about just overall this the the market's reaction to this war and and i think this this popular trade that's emerging again in japan when you have dollar yen at around 160. >> yes. tell us more about that too. so the carry trade the yen funded carry trade it was super popular in 2023 20 2022 202 23 when the us was raising rates and the japan was still at the zero 0% right that trade kind of died down a little bit in 2024 when the bank of japan started to hike rates and but uh uh but of course there is no uh official data on carry trade because it's all over the counter but there are signs that uh this car trade could be picking up again because bj is very reluctant to tighten any further. whereas emerging markets, we're talking about jumbo ray hikes, right? and also based on what we have seen uh dur during the last month of iran war, the japan market is not doing anything better than emerging markets per se, right? so as japanese investor, you will say, okay, i'm not that interested in the japan market because it's so volatile. i'm safer putting my money into the us, us dollar or us stock market or even emerging markets. so that trade is ticking up again. >> fantastic two pieces there that we just went through very surface level. so you can read about that of course on your bloomberg terminal. uh just check out of course every shulie's work. let's put it that way. uh right. also if you want to rewatch that specifically or anything that you might have missed here on shows we have this our online video hub of course where subscribers can explore news live streaming interviews and all uh the bloomberg tv programming slates. you have documentaries, you have reporter analysis, and much much more. check it out. bloomberg.com/v videos. all right, i've been tracking of course all developments when it comes to iran and also some signs of diplomacy as well where china and pakistan have issued a joint call for an immediate ceasefire in the iran war and for the safeguarding of shipping through the straight of horbuz which remains largely closed. >> yeah. let's uh bring in minman lo, our china correspondent here to tell us about this about the role that china is now seemingly willing to play uh when it comes to the conflict. >> yeah, i think it still tells you that china is only willing to talk the talk and not much beyond that. if you look at the five-point plan, the joint peace plan that it came up alongside pakistan, the five points are number one, calling for a ceasefire, two, do not attack civilians. number three, uphold the un charter. number four, calling for a diplomatic end to this conflict. and number five, protect the ships passing through the street of homu. so very baseline demands there that shows that china still remains quite neutral and impartial in this conflict. and to be realistic, this peace point plan, uh, five-point peace plan is probably not going to do a lot to shape that conflict, right? it's very different from the 15-point plan that the us had put out, of course, you know, that one was a lot more demanding, calling for, uh, denuclearization, uh, giving up the enriched uranium to iaea, for example. but in this case, i think it's interesting, right? it shows you that china in some ways is riding on the coattails of pakistan here, which has been able to be the interlocutor, right? over the weekend, it hosted a four nation summit with the foreign ministers of saudi arabia, egypt, te. they were all in islamabad. and right after that, the foreign minister of pakistan then flew to beijing against medical advice because he fell when he received the egyptian foreign minister uh and he had a hairline fracture in his shoulder. but despite medical advice, he still went to beijing, which of course shows you how important this relationship and pakistan is taking china into confidence here. but it still shows you that beijing in some ways is not able to be the one that plays mediator between the us and iran here. >> state media, how how have they been covering the latest developments on iran so far? >> so state media, i think the tone has been pretty measured as well, pretty much towing the line of the foreign ministry. i mean there is a war happening. so they have been quite respectful on that front. but there are of course if you you look at the state linked tabloids like global times, they do put out these political cartoons that are dripping with sarcasm. if you if you take a look at some of the pictures that we have uploaded um and i think what is interesting is that some of these editorials do make a direct link between what's happening in middle east with what's happening in asia. and not in the way you think, right? you don't think we think about the energy crisis. yeah. check out this photo. you can see the sleeves there showing the israel and american flag toppling that symbol of peace, the dove uh on that chess board there. and this one showing uncle sam calling for help, waving the help me sign to help to end the war that it started. um, and the last one i think is interesting because it shows takayichi taking the drill uh to the door of security there. and and that's an interesting thing. it's drawing direct links between israel and japan and saying that we need to prevent japan from being the israel of east asia. drawing us resources to provoke militarism in asia. and that's the lesson it says that the world needs to learn from the iran war is that you can't tie your fate to the us. it it it's always going to end in a disaster. >> minlo, thank you so much. uh important context and caller there. of course, given the coverage uh our china correspondent there, right? i mean, we just ended just there with of course that graphic of the the japanese prime minister who by the way today uh is said to me it's the french president emanuel macron uh that's going to take place in tokyo. you certainly have this backdrop of the war that's taking place. security certainly will be front and center especially when it comes to the the straight of hormuz. in fact, the two leaders will also reportedly sign a a deal uh on supplies of rare earth. let's bring in our uh japan politics and security reporter alistister gail uh with us right now to talk us through what to expect given with this meeting taking place today alistister given the the backdrop we have currently >> right well of course this meeting was planned before the war started so they had different ideas about what they would want to talk about uh but of course the you know the the straight of hormuz crisis the iran war has completely overshadowed uh president macron's visit to japan and so uh he's talking with uh prime minister takahuchi this evening. we do expect there to be some kind of statement almost certainly will be a reference to the state of hom's situation and of course uh president trump has uh new comments about france in particular uh yesterday where he was criticizing france allegedly for not allowing us aircraft to fly over the country. we haven't had any kind of response um from the french on that. so we might hear something from uh president macron. uh he's also um going to a university. he's talking to business leaders as well. but the situation in iran is really the dominant theme here as you might expect. >> so realistically, what what are they looking at in terms of partnerships, deals? i mean there's a sort of a maritime security cooperation as well. what sort of some of the realistic outcomes that could come out of this? >> right. well, uh, you did mention, you know, the rare earth's, um, cooperation. we do think that, uh, we hear that there's going to be some kind of framework agreement. uh, we're not quite sure how much detail is going to be in there. um, you know, france and japan actually have a very close security relationship. they do military drills jointly uh, in new calonia in this part of the world out in asia. um, they also have military technology cooperation. so there may be some um details that come out on new areas where they want to work together perhaps new technologies uh defense technology perhaps new uh training plans for their militaries. they are working on a deal to make it easier for the japanese military and the french military to go to each other's countries for training. um but we're not expecting too much in the way of kind of sweeping declarations or much uh detail really. uh this is something that uh you know um uh they'll probably have some broad statement on agreeing to cooperate that almost certainly they'll refer to the situation in iran and say they want to work together to deal with the uh you know the problem of shipping coming through the straight of hormuz u but we'll have to wait and see what they actually come out with so far they've been very tight- lipped >> alistar thank you alistister gail there our japan politics and security reporter joining us out of tokyo this morning and us trade representative jameson greer says he sees stable uschina relations over the next year. he spoke exclusively with bloomberg surveillance where we also asked him whether president trump's upcoming trip to china could be postponed again. >> is there going to be a delay in the meeting? i haven't heard talk about that neither internally. i didn't hear that from my chinese counterpart when i talked to him last week. when it comes to the tariffs right now, they're section 301 tariffs that you're looking into when it comes to china and we've seen china actually have their own announcement that they're going to investigate us companies. this tit fortat we might see in the trade between beijing and washington back to where we were almost what it feels like a year ago. do you think that's going to hinder the us from getting back to the 20% level they were at before aipa was struck down? >> i don't think so. uh when you look back to the busousan agreements, the agreements we achieved with the chinese last year, we were seeking stability. uh we were seeking to ace, you know, achieve a level of, you know, tariff application on one side and a flow of rare earth minerals and and things from the other side. both sides want stability. both sides want to see continuity. the chinese know that the united states is trying to control for our, you know, giant trade deficit we've had with china for a long time, which went down by 30% last year, by the way. so, i don't think it's going >> right. china's imports to other countries into the united went up and then those countries are importing to the united states. don't you have an issue with trans shipment at the moment? >> so there's there's always been an issue with trans shipment, but when you look at our shipments from third countries outside of china since april, right, since liberation day, that that deficit has gone down by 17%. so while there may be some trans shshipment, overall our trade deficit is going down. it's going down with china. it's going down with the rest of the world. it's going exactly the right produ uh direction. at the same time, wages are going up in america. productivity is going up. >> do you think you're going to get to the 20% level? >> well, i can't prejudge the investigations right at section 301. we have to go through the legal process. we have to collect information. it's quite public. it's quite transparent. uh, you know, we know what the nature of the deal is that we struck with the chinese. uh, so so we will see. all i know is that the president for sure is going to keep protecting our economy. he's going to protect our producers so we can continue to have increased production in the us, increase wages here. if china plays hard bowl though, not just with their own investigations, but potentially bringing rare earths back into the foray. i know there they have basically till october. there's a deal on the table potentially then would you look to maybe decrease the tariff level? >> well, you know, from our perspective, we're looking for stability. we're trying to achieve we're trying to get the trade deficit reduced. we're trying to increase manufacturing in the united states and we're trying to increase real wages and all of that is happening. so, we don't see a need to change our policy. the chinese want stability. we want stability. i actually see a positive agenda with china going forward where we learn to manage our trade with each other, where we pick the kinds of things we want to be selling to each other, things that are mostly nonsensitive to avoid some of the national security elements that prove challenging in negotiations. i i i see stability with china over the next year. short seller carson block is placing bearish bets on some of the biggest corporate credit edtfs as a way to hedge the risk of economic malaise caused by ai. now, block told us the disruption to global markets from the war in iran will pale in comparison to the impact of ai. the war in iran. i mean, who knows? i i think that this is a distraction from the really big story, which is what ai is going to be doing to the job market in the next several years. so, to me, ai is going to change everything. so, you know, look, if the war in iran ends tomorrow and the straight reopens, markets are going to rip that, you know, that dynamic. i i don't think there's a way to really trade that or at least that i know of to predict that. but what i am concerned about is the long-term health of the us job market and the markets. so that's that's my focus. that's what i can that's what i can look at on the on the long-term horizon. >> well, to follow up on that, i mean, you think about ai concerns even before we were talking about what's going on in the middle east. that was the defining trade of 2026 year to date. you saw the sas apocalypse uh taking down a lot of the big tech names, the sector as a whole. i mean, in your view, it almost sounds like perhaps that was warranted. >> well, that was the wakeup call for me because until then, i hadn't really i previously messed around with some earlier generations of chat gpt and gemini, but um when i saw these software companies take a hit, i thought i don't i don't understand this. i think this would be good for software companies, right? they're going to be more productive, you know, with fewer employees. and then i learned, okay, there's concern about their pricing models, but that's what led me to really start digging into this. and you know what i think the real issue here is that within a lot of the leading edge companies in technology, their best users of ai have been able to replace seven of their colleagues. so these teams have gone from eight people to one person with ai and that's based on the current or even prior generations of ai models and those ai models are improving exponentially because they are now this generation has been coded and tested by its predecessor and it's coding and testing its successor. and so we're no longer on this linear progression path. it's now exponential. so if i look out 3 years and i think all right well if at present point in time your best ai users have basically replaced seven of their colleagues well i mean in 3 years time with exponential improvement what about the broader knowledge economy do we go from seven to six workers is that unreasonable especially when we think about certain professions like law i mean i'm using claw now to do legal documents that i used to get build war. >> so i i think this is going to be just beyond profound. >> yeah. there we go. carson block with our colleague of course katie garfield's uh some of the positions of course that mr. block has has uh either put in place or thinking about and how his stake of course in the broader scheme of things right speaking of markets are rallying today. a reminder and an update of where we are as far as some of the different segments of this sectors are concerned. chips are leading the gains. samsung is up by more than 10% today. um some of the defense related names, a lot of these names are in korea. it's not a comprehensive list of course. uh that's really when it comes to this specific group of stocks and their connections business-wise of course with what's happening in middle east. hanwa systems um korea aerospace are good examples of that. uh xiaomi's coming up as well on your screens. um there we go. and also just to mention of course some of the deliveries that i think were announced just a few uh very very recently over 20,000 cars for the month of march. and speaking of just the transport theme, yeah, i mean not completely should not come at any as any surprise some of the fuel search charges and adjustments to ticket prices uh that we're seeing. so taiwan airlines are raising their search charge for both i think it's international and also domestic short hall fuel search charges will be up sorry international flights yes and also actually domestic for domestic airlines for international flights. okay, let me just clarify that short hall flight search charge up to 45 from 1750 long haul to increase to get this 117 from about 4550 that's what rough math that's 150% >> increase of that yeah you you asked that question to paul chan >> that's a joke >> the last question right >> i mean what can you do airlines and he said look i'm i'm i'm paying the same price um but yeah i think >> financial secretary there >> um but yeah airfares i certainly continue will be elevated i guess >> a lot of volatility there too it seems >> well hopefully we get some version of a path to conclusion this time tomorrow right >> hopefully yeah tune in we'll be bringing you live course president's trump's speech uh just a few hours away of course of course insight is