# YouTube Video f4effKvqrfE

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f4effKvqrfE
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 3465 词

---

all right. all right. good afternoon. a couple of programming notes uh for you. first of all, tomorrow uh my guest will be tom fletcher, our emergency relief uh coordinator. uh he will be here to brief you on uh the humanitarian situation in the middle east. uh before that and this afternoon at 3 p.m. there will be a briefing in the security council on energy, critical minerals and security. rosemary d. parlo, our under secretary general for political and peaceuilding affairs will be briefing that meeting. [snorts] um couple of senior appointments to share with you. first um the secretary general appointed today james swan of the united states as his new special representative uh in the democratic republic of the congo. he will be of course leading the un peacekeeping mission there named known as manusco. mr. swan succeeds bintuketa of guinea to whom the secretary general is grateful for her important contributions and service to the peacekeeping mission. mr. swan is an experienced diplomat with a long career in african countries facing complex political and security um transitions. uh most recently he served uh and that's is since march of last year served as the special representative and head of the un mission in somalia. uh he had previously held that role in enacting capacity. uh and he's also been the head of the uh un miss the excuse me uh the support the mission in somalia under a different name on there we go. uh most importantly, he's had a 32year career in the us government with multiple assignments related to the drc uh and other places. we congratulate him. uh today, the secretary general is also appointing major general jun hui wu of china as the new force commander of the un mission in south sudan. uh, major general wu succeeds lieutenant general subramanyan, to whom the secretary general is grateful for his effective leadership as force commander. uh, major general wu brings to this position 40 years of leadership and operational experience in the people's liberation army and in un uh, peacekeeping. most recently, he was the military attaches of the chinese embassy in germany. uh amid the expanding promps throughout the middle east, uh it's also for us important not to lose sight of the situation in gaza, which continues to face challenges, including some related to the regional escalation, such as the closure of some of the crossing points. as we informed you this week, our team have been able to bring in fuel and other critical items into gaza since tuesday when the israeli authorities reopened the karim shalom crossing. today we were able to bring into gaza some 570,000 lers of diesel fuel through karim shalom karim abu salam. our partners were also able to collect critical supplies from the crossing. other crossing points are still closed, including rafa, which impacts our ability to bring in much more needed uh assistance and also impacts our ability to have our international staff rotate in and out of gaza. uh our humanitarian colleagues once again reiterate that safe, sustained and unimpeded access is vital uh for our operations and all our humanitarian partners to carry out their life-saving work. more crossings must be open for the movement of cargo and people. in addition, the entry of items critically uh critical for timely and effective response must be facilitated. meanwhile, our partners are doing everything in their power to ensure that people's needs are met. over the past week, uh, organizations leading on mine action conducted nearly 70 explosive hazard assessments in support of debris management. that was across the gaza strip. living conditions remain dire. uh, in a recent assessment uh, by those who manage displacement sites, findings show that only 11% of nearly 1,000 sites have communal lighting. open sewage was observed in more than half of the sites surveyed. we and our partners are continuing to work tirelessly to ensure dignified safe shelter conditions. but the absence of the changes in the operating environment, the needs continue to outpace our ability to meet them. uh since saturday, our partners distributed education supplies to a dozen of temporary learning centers in hanunice and parts of rafa. these supplies will improve the quality of learning for tens of thousands of school-aged children as well as report support of their well-being and development. and we continue to follow with concern uh the ongoing situation in the occupied uh west bank including [snorts] settler activity. um turning to the broader uh region, uh our humanitarian colleagues tell tell us that we along with our partners are continuing to monitor the [snorts] rapidly evolving situation across the region where hostilities are increasingly impacting civilians, humanitarian operations and essential supply routes. disruptions to airspace and transportation corridors continues to affect the movement of humanitarian supplies and personnel as well as commercial goods. this p this puts supply chains at risk and could have broader implications for the availability of cost of essential food, fuel, and medical supplies. unhcr, our refugee agency, tells us that about 100,000 people left tehran in the first two days following the attacks. that's what local estimates are being given to them. more recently, figures are not yet available. however, the agency adds there's been so far no major increase in crossber movements from iran linked to recent events, but uh our colleagues at unhcr and m are closely monitoring the situation at the various border points. uh moving to n lebanon uh where i think we've all been witnessing a spillover of the current regional conflict into that country where bombardments in the south of the country and in southern suburbs of beirut continue to impact civilians. hezbollah meanwhile continues to claim air strikes into israel. as of yesterday, the lebanese ministry of public health told us that 70 fatalities had occurred and over 435 injuries since the start of the escalation. diplomatic efforts, including those by our special coordinator, janine hennes plashert, and the unifil force commander, general abanara, are continuing with the aim of deescalating and mitigating further human suffering and displacement and urgently creating conditions for dialogue. as we've said, we welcome the decision by the government of lebanon earlier this week to accelerate efforts towards asserting the state's monopoly of arms across lebanon. it is crucial that hezbollah fully respect that decision in line with security council resolution 1701. at the same time, we reiterate once again our call on israel to uphold lebanon sovereignty and territorial integrity. also in accordance with resolution 1701, uh the un country team in lebanon, meanwhile, is scaling up its humanitarian response as needs across the country sore. as you well know, a very alarming development in this conflict is the evacuation orders issued by israel for the area south of the latani river yesterday and again today. another israeli evacuation order was issued today for the entire neighborhoods in the southern suburbs of beirut, generating panic among residents who rush to leave the area. according to the government, more than 95,000 people are sheltering in over 440 collective shelters with 49 shelters still having some capacity to host additional people. our partners working on food security have distributed more than 70,000 hot meals reaching about 55,000 newly displaced people. they also distributed mattresses, sleeping mats, blankets, solar lamps, and jerry cans. um water, hygiene, and b uh baby kits and menstrual kits were also shared with those who needed it. we reiterate that civilians and civilian infrastructure must be protected at all times in accordance with international law. deescalation, safe humanitarian access, and functioning supply routes remain essential to ensure assistance can reach people affected across the region. as you've asked me yesterday about our peacekeepers in southern lebanon, i can tell you that the un uh peacekeeping force in lebanon remains on the ground and they're active, our peacekeeping colleagues are actively carrying out their mandates. uh unifil tells us that rocket fire towards israel and air strikes, artillery and mortar shelling impacting several locations in the area of uh operations uh coming from uh south to north as well. these include areas in sector east as well as sector west. uh, israeli defense force forces units have been observed up to 2 kilometers inside lebanese territory at several locations. amid ongoing exchanges of fire, unifil supported in line with its protection of civilian mandate the transportation of dozens of civilians to safety from several villages located in southern lebanon. these people who have been transported to safety include children, older persons, and persons with disabilities. unhcr also supporting displaced population and is preparing to scale up its assistance as needed. all civilians um who are seeking safety must be allowed safe passage whether within the country or across borders and um i think our friend mr. ay had raised the issue of yes. wake up benny. um uh you'd raised the issue of yemen and i can tell you that we are concerned as we've been warning that this recent military escalation in the middle east could expand to the wider region. in that context, hans grunberg, our special envoy for yemen, has been actively engaging with yemen regional and international actors, underscoring the need to protect yemen from being dragged into yet another cycle of regional confrontation. in all his engagements, he reiterated that yemen cannot afford to once again become an area an arena for regional escalation. at the same time, there remains a fragile but real opportunity to move forward with a comprehensive political process under which under un opaces that would end the conflict and usher finally a just and sustainable peace for the yemeni people. we remain fully committed to supporting the parties in reaching a political solution to the conflict. preserving that path requires the parties to put the interests of the yemeni people above all. turning to sudan, yet another humanitarian situation we cannot forget about. uh we're seeing an alarming escalation of violence in the cordon region which continues to take a heavy toll on civilians and their communities. intensified fighting there has killed and injured civilians, destroyed homes, hospitals, and other civilian infrastructure. humanitarian access is also becoming increasingly restrained. uh in south cordon, confrontations between the rapid support forces and the sudin armed forces have intensified in recent days that is only further endangering the lives and well-being of civilians. local humanitarian organizations have reported disruptions along key routes leading to the city of dilling. our humanitarian partners also tell us that a drone strike this week hit the dilling general hospital, killing at least four patients and injuring civilians. as if we need to remind the parties yet again that uh hospitals, health centers can never be targeted. um, violence has also escalated in the town of kadugi, resulting in high volatile in highly volatile security environment for communities and humanitarian responders. in north cordopon, in the city of eloade has faced continued drone attacks over the past 5 days with strikes reported against a hospital as well as government sites. these attacks occurring amid growing threats to critical infrastructure and supply routes include the road between costi and eloade, raising serious concerns for both our humanitarian and the also critical commercial supply chain. once again, we call on all parties to adhere to their obligations under international humanitarian law, which as we've said are not a secret. they are well known. they just need to be respected. and that includes the protection of civilians and civilian infrastructure and the facilitation of safe and sustained humanitarian access. [snorts] um, today is the international day for disarmament and non-prololiferation awareness. in his message for the day, the secretary general said the threats of nuclear weapon is the highest in decades. global tensions are pushing military spending to stratospheric levels. small arms and light weapons are proliferating and emerging technologies are making conflicts even deadlier. the secretary general said it is time to invest in the architecture of peace and not the tools of war. that means living up to disarmament obligations, rebuilding trust, and strengthening the systems and tools that prevent proliferation, testing, and the use of deadly weapons. speaking of deadly weapons, edie, ask me a question. uh, thank you, steph. um, has the united nations pulled any of its staff out of iran, israel, or any of the countries in the region that are have been targeted during this war. >> uh, we are constantly uh assessing the well-being of our colleagues uh including in iran. uh i don't have anything i can publicly share with you right now. in lebanon, we've moved some people uh internally uh to ensure that both our international and national staff are safe. >> and forgive me if you already said this, but has the secretary general still been talking to leaders in the region? yeah, i mean he met yesterday with the saudi ambassador and he's having a meeting uh well as of three minutes ago with representatives of the gulf cooperation council. madame, >> thank you steph. um uh israeli uh minister uh smrich this morning said that beirut's district will soon look like i mean no accountability has been has taken place for what happened in gaza. um and now and lebanon has been under fire for the past more than a year. um any comments on on this? i mean, this kind of uh this kind of rhetoric makes us even more worried about uh the lebanese people, right? uh who've been uh who've been in the crosshairs uh for far too long. um there cannot be uh we cannot see more bombings of civilians or civilian uh infrastructure. >> and uh just one more question also on lebanon. uh we saw the uh footage this morning of the massive exodus out of dh after the orders were issued. do you have any numbers that you can share? >> not more than what i've shared with you now. uh and those numbers really are held by the lebanese government, miss fulu. and then we'll move and then linda, we'll move down. go ahead. >> thank you, steph. um appropo of the gulf states about how much staff un staff is present in the various states? oh, a few quite quite, you know, it it depends on the countries. i'll get you a breakdown, but you know, for instance, in the uae, we have a big humanitarian hub. uh we have quite a few uh colleagues there. in saudi, we have colleagues in qatar uh as well, bahrain um and different places in the gulf. but we'll we'll get you a breakdown. pam, >> thanks steph. uh how worried is the secretary general about global energy supplies um being impeded by the attacks on the gulf of hormuz and u particularly in in um with regard to un aid um will the prices go up? i mean >> well i mean of course i mean the listen it's uh i think one can only take a look at the news uh and be very very worried uh and we all know if as soon as the price of uh of energy of oil of fossil fuels uh go up it has a direct impact on just about everything uh including uh including un operations and we're this is happening in a world that is still uh sadly very much addicted uh to fossil fuels and we're we're we live in an era where we're um we live at the mercy of energy that is being uh extracted far from far from from homes in you know if you live outside of the the gulf which is creating all sorts of uh of risk. so it's something he's very much uh aware of. >> benny denfr uh [clears throat] sorry uh speaking of lebanon. so, uh, britain just said, i think today or yesterday, that, uh, that missile that hit its, uh, base in cyprus did not come from iran. it didn't say where it came from. since unifil, one of his job is to, uh, count the missiles and uh, rockets and uh, sorties. uh is is there any information you can provide from unifil about possible uh uh launch from lebanon on >> no, i mean not not no information that i've been given. i mean i think we've been reporting here uh the observations of unifil of fires going from uh rocket fires from hezbollah going uh from north to south and israeli rocket fire and and idf presence going from south uh to north. i have not been given or shared any information of them observing uh drones or rocket fire going leaving lebanon towards uh towards the mediterranean within its area of operations. so um [clears throat] it missed that one. uh on the um gulf states, uh how concerned is the un about civilians there? you know, there are >> i mean, we're we're we're very >> mention it. >> uh well, we have been mentioning we're very worried about the uh what we've seen is the expansion of the of the conflict. uh we've seen civilian casualties in almost all of the gulf states at one point uh or another. um civilians are civilians wherever they are and they need to be protected and never be targeted. ephraim. >> thank you, steph. uh, couple of follow-ups. just a quick question on the numbers. just keeping tracks of the of the numbers. you said 70 people died in lebanon. when were these numbers last updated? cuz the health ministry is saying 102 people died so far. >> those are numbers i was given today. so, we'll try to >> okay. thank you. and and um do you have any details um from the meeting of the secretary general with the saudi ambassador and what he told him? >> it's you know it's it's along the same lines expressing his own concern about the uh the extensive uh the expansion of the conflict his his worry about uh the expansion of the conflict to the gulf uh including uh in saudi arabia. and i think you mentioned yesterday he met with the iranian pr was that yesterday and and i wonder did he bring up uh and and your message which you just read? i mean >> i gave you the readout that i shared with you yesterday on that meeting. >> basul steph as you aware earlier today the nakuan region of azerban uh was subjected to drone attacks by the islamic republic of iran. so the targets of these attacks were civilian airport and school. azerban and the number of countries in the region and beyond condemned these attacks as a serious violation of the un charter and international law. so in this regard, what's the reaction of the secretary general on this very serious incident which caused damage to civilian infrastructure and injured civilians in auban? well, we're obviously uh very worried about uh and concerned about the the drone attack on azeri uh territory. it's yet another example of another country in which this conflict is being expanded into. uh it is a clear violation of aeri sovereignty. uh and um and again we urge uh we urge uh we do not want to see any further escalation uh and want to make sure international law is uh is respected. yes, please go ahead. u there have been different narratives and voices about um the possibilities of u the peace talk uh resume between iran the us u and we know that sg has been in contact with all man all men's pr does the un have any um idea how possible is this peace talks >> no i mean resume >> we don't have any uh information to share at this moment we would like to see uh the dialogue resume as quickly as possible to avoid any further uh killings of civilians. okay. uh yes, madame zena. >> sorry for my late question. >> oh, it's okay. >> as you are raising concern about the expansion of this war and it's clear that it's expanding. okay. is the united nations ready for world war ii? >> well, listen, uh we're not into hypotheticals. we don't want to see any more conflict. um we want to see an end to this conflict. uh there will be uh i think it is clear and we're already seeing an increasing humanitarian need. uh once this conflict ends and it will end uh the the humanitarian needs will be even clearer and they will it will require even more resources and more efforts. thank you.