# YouTube Video UBhAuEHxVm4

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UBhAuEHxVm4
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 15843 词

---

Thank you. &gt;&gt; Welcome everybody. My name is Matias Vista and I'm the director of the K Ryan Center for Human Rights. Welcome to this particular event in our series Israel Palestine in uh in 2026 from pain to hope. Um pain to hope very much with a question mark. So we want to investigate what possibilities uh for hope there in fact are. And this is the fourth uh event in in this series. And they uh these events are very different in nature because we're trying to throw light on this question of whether we actually there is a potential how much of a potential there is and moving from from pain to hope in uh in uh in in in in very from very different perspectives. Uh and the title today is peace politics and possibilities the road ahead for uh Palestine. Uh and today we uh we are we are typically uh recording our events in order to make them more broadly accessible but today we are not not just we're not recording but we're actually live streaming. So we are we are on the air as we as we speak and that also means uh well special welcome to those of you who are following us not from this room but from someplace else and you will be able to uh ask your question also. So please put it in the chat and we'll be we'll be channeling uh that from here. So with that said uh let me introduce the uh the the panelists um in in the order in which I will then also ask them questions. So what we'll do is I will interact with each of the panelists for about 10 minutes about some particular questions and then we we'll see where where that takes us and we may then have um some discussion on the table among our panelists or we may go straight to to uh to to your questions. Let's let's just see how long this takes and and what the what the mood is at that at that moment. And so um uh all the way to the left is uh Zahan who is a Palestinian-American human rights lawyer, political analyst and senior fellow in the Middle East program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. and her research focuses on international law, US foreign policy and the strategic use of international legal mechanisms for political movements. And as Zaha brings much practitioner and experience to the set of questions we are investigating here today, among other things, she served as the senior legal adviser to the Palestinian negotiation team during Palestine's bid for UN membership between 2010 and 2012. Then right next to me is Yel Mona who is a Palestinian American analyst and writer as well as head of the Palestine Israel program and senior fellow at the Arab Center in Washington DC and his writings have appeared in outlets like the New York Times, the Washington Post and foreign policy. one of the most prominent analysts working on Palestinian rights and political futures today. He has argued that the two-state solution has been overtaken by facts on the ground and that any honest reckoning with the future has to begin with that recognition. And then next to him, Josh Rupner. Josh Rup is an author, analyst, and policy director at the Institute for Middle East Understanding and also an adjunct lecturer in the program on justice and peace at Georgetown University. He's the author of the 2013 book Shattered Hopes and the 2017 book Israel, Democracy or Aparttheite State. and he previously served also as an analyst in Middle Eastern Middle East affairs at the Congressional Research Service and co-founded an organization that later merged with Jewish Voice for Peace. And then finally, last but of course not least is Mar Shashan, a colleague at the Harvard Graduate School of Design, who is an Israeli Dutch designer, researcher and author. and she also is the founding director of an organization called FAST which is an architectural think tank that uses spatial analysis and participatory design to address systematic violence in conflict zones. Her 2010 book, Atlas of Conflict, Israel Palestine, remains a landmark reference work, and her project, Border Ecologies, and the Gaza Strip, won the Silver Lion at the 2021 Venice Architecture BNL a few years ago. Please give them a round of applause for being here today. [applause] So, Zaha, let me let me start let me start with you all the way from the other end of that table. And uh let's let's uh start let's move right in and talk a little bit about current events and and specifically about Donald Trump's board of peace. So the board of peace had this uh originally had a mandate attached to Gaza was approached by the was approved by the UN security council with a with a mandate around Gaza. Uh but by now it's it's it's a it's a bit of an understatement to say it went beyond Gaza at their website. It doesn't care much speak about Gaza at all. it seems to be more like Donald Trump's parallel international outfit trying to replace the UN. Um, so can you just talk a little bit about about uh this new body? What is its relationship to the UN given that there was this original security council endorsement but that now it seems to be finding its own way. Uh, and can you maybe also assess a little bit how much prospect for peace are emanating from from that particular body at the current time? &gt;&gt; Is this working? Okay, great. Um, first of all, thank you so much for having me with old friends and new friends and to see so many familiar faces in the audience. Um, so to the board of peace, you're right. It's a it's a mechanism that we don't know too much about yet. It's um it's not so transparent. It is um deeply problematic because of a number of reasons that I'll get into in a second. But before I I go into its prospects for for uh you know the future of Gaza and the Palestinian Israeli conflict resolution, I wanted to kind of step back and and just remind folks how we got to the board of peace because I think that is very illuminating in terms of what's the purpose of the board of peace. If you think about it, just before uh we heard about the board of peace and it was announced as a part of the Trump plan in September, there was a slew of activity uh going on um with different international legal mechanisms. We had a number of ICJ uh opinions. Um we had one ICJ advisory opinion, another ICJ um case South Africa brought against Israel under the Genocide Convention. We had the IC issuing arrest warrants for uh the Israeli prime minister and the former defense minister. And so there was all this activity um where we were seeing some real movement in terms of uh accountability in terms of really naming what was going on inside of the occupied territories. And just to, you know, just to uh review that a little bit, the ICJ advisory opinion that came down in July um 2024 was really um important because it essentially dismantled the entire Oslo framework. It said that no, Palestinians don't have to wait for Israel's consent to uh to end the occupation. They don't have to guarantee Israel's security. That's not how it works. You know, the occupation they said is illegal. they it needed to end immediately. The the settlements were all illegal. They needed to be dismantled immediately and third states and others needed to support Palestinian self-determination. So, and so that was essentially what we we got from the advisory opinion. And before that, we had in January of 2024, we had a ICJ um uh contentious case between South Africa and Israel. Um it was a provisional measures case under the genocide convention. But essentially what the court said was that you know there is a plausible risk that genocide is taking place in Gaza. And the court ordered for humanitarian relief to be um immediately uh entered into Gaza at scale and for you know incitement to genocide to stop and you know a number of other things. But that that was a very important case because it put the world on notice that something is happening in Gaza and it's uh a complete violation of international law and it's the worst crime of crimes potentially occurring there. So what happened after these important um you know decisions um and advisory opinions we we got mobilization from around the world. We got France and Saudi Arabia coming together to form the high level um uh conference um to implement or to uh solve the Palestinian question or the Palestine question. we saw the global alliance get formed and the global alliance was the EU and Norway and Saudi Arabia coming together to um finally implement the two-state solution which we'll talk about with with you and um but the the point of that was it those mechanisms that were being created um were mechanisms that were rights respecting they were aiming at implementing the ICJ advisory opinion and supporting Palestinian self-determination so That's that was the context in which only weeks after we had this high level conference that was finally talking about what do states need to do to implement the ICJ uh advisory opinion we got um uh the unveiling of the Trump plan. The Trump plan that talked about the border of peace creating a transitional authority for um for Gaza. And you know, just to say right off the bat, I mean, obviously, when there's um you know, a risk of genocide taking place in Gaza, the world wanted an answer. The world wanted US engagement because you the US is the only party that's going to be able to influence Israel's uh decisions and um influence its behaviors. And so there was a a lot of support for US engagement even though the Trump plan was a deeply problematic plan. It it was broken down into three phases essentially. The first phase was going to see Israeli withdrawals from parts of uh Gaza, the um the entry of unrestricted humanitarian assistance and the exchange of of captives. That was phase one. Once we had that, we were going to get to phase two, which dealt with um the uh uh creation of an international stabilization force and um reconstruction being able to happen as the stabilization forces were able to control parts of the parts of Gaza where construction was going to begin. And then at the end of all of that, we were going to see um uh you know, progress on Palestinian self-determination, whatever whatever that meant. We don't know because it wasn't quite uh defined and none of this, you know, was was uh bound by time. We don't know how long it was going to take till we get to a phase three. And and it was all conditional on certain Palestinian reforms, Palestinian Authority reforms that Israel would have to sign off on. One of those reforms was Palestinians uh stopping accessing uh international legal mechanisms and withdrawing their cases. um and and um things that they couldn't honestly do because once the cases were filed by victims, there's not so much that the Palestinian Authority could do. But that's what that was the condition for getting to phase three. And so Gaza was completely cut off from from uh from the situation in the West Bank. So that's where that's the Trump plan. Then followed the u the UN Security Council resolution that endorsed that plan. And you might ask, well, why would any anybody endorse a plan like that that was going to uh leave so much vagaries about what was going to happen to the Palestinians in Gaza and the Palestinian question at large, especially after almost the entire world had come together at the UN high level conference and um you know Saudi Arabia and and uh France under France's leadership and the reason again is because it was the only mechanism in town and there was a hope that uh by having the security council endorse this you would have guard rails around the Trump plan that there would be international law informing the the Trump plan. Um, unfortunately we haven't seen uh the that that uh pan out and that's because the charter for the board of peace and now I get to the board of peace which is the transitional body that Trump would lead uh for Gaza's uh rehabilitation and recovery and reconstruction that that this charter only came out after uh this UN security council endorsed and that the charter essentially creates a a mechanism that Trump leads in his personal capacity. He makes all the decisions ultimately including in terms of um funding and and the budget and the direction of uh travel for any reconstruction efforts. Um member states are um you know sit there on on a board but they have no real authority including the United States separately from Trump. the United States has a seat on the board, but Trump's tenure on the Board of Peace will uh continue indefinitely even beyond his administration. So you have this this strange body that um it's is you know he's calling it an international organization but it it defies everything we know about an international organization and it even defies US law because if you create such an organization and the US participates in it um you know you need to get uh congressional u either congressional authorization or you need to have the senate um uh ratified as a treaty and that didn't take place. So this this border piece is a very strange thing. We don't really know how it's going to operate. Uh because you know a lot of the Europeans don't want to have anything to do with it because of course they aren't co-equals with Trump on this board and they don't understand the funding how the funding is going to work and where it's going to go and it's very uh it's not very transparent at this point. So I don't have a lot of hope. I know this we're talking about hope today. I don't have a lot of hope about the board of peace, but um you know, I think it it's going to take a lot of international engagement to try to steer it in a better direction. I just don't know if that's possible when we're in the midst [laughter] of a of a regional war and let the bow break. Let me ask you um one follow up on that since you uh you you spoke about the theme of hope and you know you you bring all this background uh operating in uh in in these um uh legal and political mechanisms at the international level. So uh if um if a young Palestinian advocate comes to you for advice and says is this worth engaging in the line of work that you are in or should I rather do something else to help the cause? What would you say? I mean, you know, I got into this because I I I um I grew up in Palestine. I went to high school there at the time of the first Cindy Faba. And um you know, I couldn't I couldn't access any uncensored material. I'd had to go to Alac, which is a human rights organization, to get any uncensored material to do my homework. And that's where I spent my time doing my homework. And I I got to sit in in a room and just, you know, few feet away from me were a bunch of human rights lawyers talking about what was, you know, what to do, you know, what what strategies to pursue around um uh you know, Palestine and talking about humanitarian law and human rights law. And I was just fascinated by this and thinking, you know, yeah, this is this is the answer. You know, we have the law on our side. We have the facts on our side. we can we can solve this thing you know and I've I've spent better part of my life uh working on um Palestine Israel issues and feeling many a lot of that a lot of times that you know this is um you know it it's not about the law and it's not about the facts it's about political power &gt;&gt; and I think in this this moment in particular where we we we're seeing the world superpower power um you know uh losing its authority and sort of flailing at the moment and um and the institutions that we've built up post World War II are be are being dismantled. uh it's very discouraging because the state of international law and our multilateral institutions is it seems to be crumbling but that to me makes it more important for people to be engaged because there are efforts um to push back on this. I mean, middle powers in particular have the most to lose if we lose this this system. And you see mobilizations happening with um the bricks being enlarged, for example. And you see the hate group being created in 30 countries coming together to say no, we've got to preserve these institutions. Um and you see contact groups like the global alliance um for the two-state solution or the high level conference um coming together. So there's a lot of work to be done and there's a lot of interest in in preserving and you know and improving our institution. So I would really encourage people to to not lose hope even though it does seem very discouraging at the moment. &gt;&gt; Thank you Joseph. Let me uh move on to you. So um you have argued uh that two-state solution that was favored on both sides for a long time is no longer viable and that the more honest question uh is what kind of one-state reality we are moving towards even though that also seems a bit fantastic right now. So given everything that has unfolded since October 23 and given Trump's current posture towards the region that we just discussed. So do you see any political forces domestic, regional, internationally international that are actually capable of meaningfully reshaping the current trajectory or are we just watching for closure of possibilities all over the place in in real time? Yeah, thank you for that and thank [clears throat] you to the uh to the organizers uh for putting this together. Um so a few things I would say in in response to that. First, I I don't think it's uh uh fantastical to to talk about a one-state reality. We have a one-state reality. May not be a good reality, but that is the reality. There is one state between the river and the sea, and it dictates the overwhelming majority of outcomes uh primarily through the use of force. And we need to look at and grapple with this reality. But to answer your question a little bit more about I think what can be done and I'm not sure changing the d the trajectory in reverse towards a a a a two-state solution is is the right thing. I think we need to change the trajectory but towards something different than that. Um I want to begin by first kind of explaining a little bit about um some ideas within uh Israeli policy when it comes to its relationship with the Palestinians. Okay. And this is something that I would call the Jabatinsky threshold. Okay. Uh Zev Jabatinsky is a early Zionist thinker uh a foundational ideological father of the uh Zionist uh project on the right. Um and he thought quite deeply about the relationship at the time with what he called the Arabs. Okay, the Palestinians he called the Arabs. Uh and he wrote a really seinal work called the Iron Wall that laid out I think some very important principles that to this day continue to guide Israeli policy visav their relationship with the Arabs or the or the Palestinians and beyond. And the the the concept in the iron wall um which everybody should go and read if you haven't already was quite simple. Uh Jabatinsky recognized that the native inhabitants of the land who he called the the Arabs were no different than the red Indians as he called them of the Americas or any other colonized people. And because of this, it is important for the Zionists to recognize that they are going to resist and that the only way that there could be any kind of agreement with the Arabs, important here, he recognized that agreement was possible was when we reached this threshold, okay, of enough violence towards them that they calculated that an agreement was better than continuing to resist. Okay, somewhere out there in this mystical land existed this threshold. Where exactly is it? He doesn't specify, but he guarantees that one day we will reach it. And so today in Israeli policy as it relates to the Arabs or the Palestinians, uh the the policy discourse continues to revolve around well if if we hit them hard and that didn't work, the solution has to be that we didn't hit them hard enough. And this is the next step. And this is how over time we have moved from seeing breaking the bones of protesters and throwing them into prison, something that was once novel and outrageous, become routine. Only to see using live fire against protesters, something that was once novel and outrageous, become routine. Only to see the use of air power in dense urban neighborhoods once be novel and outrageous. then become routine, only to see the use of air power taking out entire apartment buildings once be novel and outrageous and then become routine, culminating in the genocidal violence that we saw in Gaza over the last several years, wiping out entire urban areas. Okay, a level of violence that we have never seen before. So where is this threshold? Where is this threshold? And it's not just with the Arabs anymore. Today the threshold is expanding towards the Persians. Tomorrow it may be expanding towards the Turks. So when you ask me, you know, uh what I think what can alter this trajectory, uh first of all, it's going to have to be something much bigger than just the Palestinians alone. It's going to have to take a global reaction that says this is madness. This cannot continue. That's number one. Number two, and this is uh uh important and I think particularly dangerous, several years ago, and as I sat thinking about this today, I realize now that it's 20 years ago that the late President Jimmy Carter wrote a a book where he said, uh, look, Israel is facing a choice between peace on the one hand, and he was talking about a negotiated two-state solution with the Palestinians, or apartheid, that those were the two paths before Israel that it had to sort of choose from at this time 20 years ago and of course he was absolutely lambasted in the in the mainstream American media called an anti-semite and everything that you can imagine and over the last 20 years we've seen of course an entrenched version of uh Israeli uh apartheid on the ground but what I think is so interesting and dangerous is that we are what we are seeing in recent years and in fact this predates October of 2023 very importantly there are many in Israel and I don't believe it is everybody but many and it is the prevailing ing sentiment today that says to President Carter, "No, we reject this." Not because there isn't a fundamental conflict between the demographic situation and the idea of democracy, but because this is not a binary choice. There is an alternative option C, eliminating the population. If the population is not there anymore, we don't have a conflict between Zionism and Jewish majoritarianism and democracy. It's not a conflict anymore. And the scary thing is when you look at public opinion polling in Israel, significant majorities of Jewish Israelis support the idea of forcible exile of Palestinians in Gaza, in the West Bank, and even among Palestinian citizens of Israel. And today we are watching a very dangerous threepronged threat against Palestinian populations in these different spaces. In Gaza we have seen what the Israeli military has done and this has been sort of the the the prime Israeli response to any sort of organized Palestinian resistance. In the West Bank it's the same story. But where it is not militarized resistance, the response comes in the form of settler violence which has run a muck in the West Bank and has targeted Palestinian communities there. And for Palestinians inside Israel, we're seeing a plague of organized crime which is clearly tolerated by the state and many suspect is also supported by the state as well. So to answer your question, how do we change this directory? um I think is going to require a global response and it is going to start and it already has started affecting more than just Palestinians. &gt;&gt; Okay. So let me um I'm eager to bring the theme of hope to to the so so you know this the the framing right. So but with this question mark from pain to hope. So so so that's you just identified what what it would take. So is there a is there a pathway? Is there something concrete? Is there something at the you know the structural diplomatic uh level somewhere to be found where you actually see some hope for progress or is this mostly for closing of possibilities for you right now? &gt;&gt; It's I saw the way that the question and and the title of this was framed from pain to hope. I I don't think &gt;&gt; yeah question mark I I I don't think this is a transition. I think these both pain and hope are part of life. They always are. They're constantly part of life. uh and you never really move from one to the other. It's it's just uh about trying to uh understand how one moves to a better place despite the pain and to overcome the pain. &gt;&gt; Um I see a tremendous amount of hope. &gt;&gt; Uh and I see that first and foremost in places in Gaza where despite all of the destruction, there are graduation ceremonies taking place for medical students who did not stop their studies despite multiple years of of genocide. I see that in the uh young uh students who are out protesting at campuses across America, including in places like uh this who are making a point that they don't they don't want to support this anymore. Um I see this in the public opinion poll uh of people who are disgusted by what is going on and that this is not just among left-leaning people um but people from all backgrounds and really all around the world. So there are a lot of places where you can look uh to find that hope and I also see the hope in the desperation of the tactics by those who are hoping to maintain this status quo. the efforts to criminalize speech, the efforts to shut down discussion about these things uh and and and and that tells me that the argument has already been won. &gt;&gt; Thank you, Josh. Let's move on to you. So, um you are Jewish American, a Jewish American has been much involved in advocacy for Palestinian rights and now we are at a moment of intensified pressure on that kind of work, on that kind of descent. on campuses and legislative chambers and public life more broadly. Uh and you know you have just also alluded to that and what that might all mean. How do you understand the role of Jewish advocacy uh within the wider movement for Palestinian rights and what do current crackdowns on that space mean for the road ahead? So it's really connecting to what we just discussed now. &gt;&gt; Yeah, thank you so much for that question Matias. It's not often that I speak from a perspective of personal identity, more of a policy guy, historian. Uh but since you asked, I'm glad to answer. Look, uh tonight is the second night of the Jewish holiday of Pess Passover that commemorates the liberation of the Israelites from slavery in Egypt to freedom. And there's a part of the sailor where people say, let me translate this in my head. Uh, in every generation, a person is obligated to view themselves as if they themselves left Egypt. And what that is is an ancient way of saying nobody is free until everybody is free. And so when I think about the holiday of Pesa, I think about how Calidians are unfree. And I think about how Jewish Americans need to take ownership for what I call decolonizing the institutions of Jewish American life. We have a responsibility to insist on this decolonization. This decoupling between Jewish-American institutions and Zionism. Zionism, let's be clear, is a 19th century blood and soil settler colonial ideology. And this settler colonial ideology has been implemented through a racist apartheid supremacist system of rule of oppression of the indigenous Palestinian people for now almost 80 years through the existence of the state of Israel. And I think Palestinians have always done a really excellent job of differentiating between Zionism on the one hand and Judaism on the other. So if we look back historically to the Arab Higher Committee in the 1940s, if we look back historically to the PLO in the 1970s, for example, they always made these very clear distinctions that we are not against Jewish people because they are Jewish. We're struggling against Zionism, which is a racist form of settler colonialism. So, I want to be very clear in my remarks because I don't want there to be any misunderstandings or problems for Harvard here. Okay. &gt;&gt; We don't get any of our [laughter] go. &gt;&gt; Fair enough. [laughter] &gt;&gt; On the one hand, let me be very clear. Look, Jewish Americans should not be held individually responsible for the actions of the state of Israel. I think that that's very clear. But at the same time, we also have to understand how the prime minister of the state of Israel is claiming to speak and act on behalf of Jewish people worldwide. claiming this extra extr territorial right to govern in the name of Jewish people regardless of whether they're living there or not. And we also have to be real about the fact that Jewish American communal institutions are advocating for Israel. I think it's extremely problematic when synagogues fly the Israeli flags in religious institutions. I think it's extremely problematic when a synagogue post we stand with Israel outside of those religious institutions and I think it's extremely problematic when synagogues serve as venues to steal expropriated and Palestinian lands in the West Bank as happens in synagogues all across the United States today. So this is what I mean by the need for Jewish Americans to insist on the decolonization and the dellinking of Zionism from JewishAmerican institutions. Let me make two more quick points. Number two, being in solidarity with Palestinians means listening to Palestinians. It means heeding what they are asking us to do. And in the case of Palestinian civil society, it's been very clear for the past 20 years. Palestinians are calling upon all of us to engage in campaigns of boycott divestment and sanctions to achieve freedom, justice, and equality. So this, I think, is a key component of what Jewish Americans need to do to be in solidarity with the Palestinian people. Third point, we and this goes not only for Jewish Americans but Americans of all stripes. We cannot be prescriptive about what the resolution to the Israeli Palestinian issue should be, especially when people insist that two states is the only resolution possible. It is not the only resolution possible. this use of outlines and it's an outmoded paradigm that is unjust inherently. So for Jewish Americans or for other Americans to be insisting on trying to shoehorn Palestinian rights into a two-state framework is fundamentally unjust. &gt;&gt; Let me ask you um one more question uh now less of the personal sort but you know in your role as a policy advisor historian. So uh you have done a lot of work on on putting the 1948 Nagba in perspective and connecting it also to policy discourse and the general take on that in certainly in American policy discourse is that this is something that happened in history a long time ago and there's nothing more that needs to be said about it. From your sense of a as a historian of this period of the the lasting effects of of these events and what this all means for policy discourse, what does it actually involve for to take the nakba more seriously in American policy discourse? &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's a really question because we cannot understand the road ahead for Palestine unless we understand how we got here today. And so my PhD work examined what the United States knew about the Nekba, the catastrophe that Israel inflicted on the Palestinian people between 1947 and 1950. in my research. But we have to understand that four out of every five Palestinians the lowly either fled out of fear for their lives because of warfare or were forcibly expelled from their homes and in both cases were not allowed to return to those homes by Israel despite international law mandating that they had the right to return. So more than 80% of Palestinians were ethnically cleansed from their homelands in order to create the state of Israel. And so I examined what US policy makers knew at the time, what US diplomats on the ground knew at the time. And what I found was that they understood quite well the systematic nature of Israel's looting of Palestinian property. They understood quite well and quite clearly that these expulsions of Palestinians were designed to drag them out of their homeland permanently in order to create a majority Jewish state. And indeed, that's the only way a majority Jewish state could have been created. And US diplomats actually recognized the dire situation that was faced by Palestinian refugees who were driven from their homes. And my goodness, reading these documents from the archives of the United States, the time when Israel was inflicting genocide against Palestinians in Gaza, was such an eerie parallel because US diplomats and US humanitarian aid workers reported back about how Palestinian refugees did not have access to food. They did not have access to clean drinking water. They did not have access to shelter and were living under the open air. They did not have access to sanitation and many many Palestinian refugees died as a result of this lack of basic services. And so to understand the parallels between the nekba and the genocide today is to understand the ongoing nature of the nekba. The nekba is not a historical event. As the great scholar of settler colonialism, Patrick Wolf, informed us, settler colonialism is not an event. It's a structure going on catastrophe against the Palestinian people for now almost 80 years. And the US never envisioned or condoned what Israel did during the night. In fact, US diplomats were horrified. But what is this by what Israel did and in fact even President Truman himself was horrified by Israel's ethnic cleansing. So the pe the quote unquote peace process, the Oslo process was premised on making the neck a historical event only and not something that was taken into account. Refugees were taken into account only as a humanitarian issue. And that's exactly what UN Security Council resolution 242 says. It treats Palestinians who are unnamed in that Security Council resolution as a humanitarian issue. And so the whole premise of the Oslo negotiations more than 30 years ago was premised on giving up the claims of Palestinian refugees to return to their homes in their lands. The key turning point in terms of justice and peace is not 1967 when Israel completed its conquest of Palestine, but it's in rectifying the injustices of the Mecca of 1948. And it's only by addressing those fundamental injustices of Israel's vast ethnic cleansing of Palestinians in 1948 that we can have hope for a just resolution tomorrow. Thank you Josh. Market let me uh turn to you. So u market you um last year actually gave a commen the commencement address at the school of design. Uh and in that uh address which I urge you all to read it's quite fascinating. You describe a collective paralysis uh in the face of the constant influx of images and information that we are getting and ask whether spatial design might offer a way to transform despair into hope. So let me ask you on that. What does what does that transformation look like in practice? And how do you guard against the risk that imagining alternative futures becomes however beautifully rendered a substitute for political action rather than a pathway to it and I understand you have some images for us. &gt;&gt; Yes, I have a lot of images to share with you. So thank you so much for convening this conversation. It's uh very timely, very important, very urgent to continue talking uh about what's happening um in Israel, in Palestine, the Jedi in Gaza. So, thank you for that. So, if I can follow your questions and let's see where I'm where I am. So, I did give the commencement speech. It wasn't um it wasn't easy. And when we look at the current landscape of violence, it's um actually easy to lose hope. H the images that flood our scenes um our screens, sorry. The scale of destruction uh string in real time at high resolution, make the boundaries between here and there elusive. And it is exposes us to a kind of collective PTSD. So we witness atrocities as they happen watching the pain of others from afar yet at arm length through our mobile devices and through our screens. And while the physical distance seems to vanish in pixels and sounds, the ability to act or truly be present doesn't. Erh, it's a sort of an intimacy without agency that makes the experience of violence feel immediate and uh powerless at the same time. Uh so the mounting casualties, the people, the ruined buildings, the devastated ecosystems and so on and so forth. so much has been destroyed are so overwhelming that they produce a collective foresies personal and collective parasis. It's all so vast and so overpowering that it can erase any real sense of scale of agency of our shared humanity toward humanity toward ours humanity our own humanity. Um and in the face of all these it is incredibly hard to hold on to hope. But uh holding on to hope is crucial. Uh hope is not a privilege to hold on to or not. And we can uh learn this actually as you mentioned earlier from what is going on on the ground in Gaza especially but also in Beirut and also in Israel in Iran this moment as well. So hold on to hope not as an abstract concept but as a fundamental survival instinct. Erh hope for them is not a luxury or a philosophical position. It is the daily act of continuing to live to care and to hold an image of the future when violence or or the future that the violence sees to exist. As long as you are alive, you hope it's a visceral embodied response against total despair. So from a design perspective, uh the complexity of uh spans practices require a careful examination of how design has been historically complicit in producing violence. And actually my first interest I grew up in Israel and I studied architecture in Israel and my first uh the first moment that I really understood what is happening in the country was actually through architecture and through understanding space understanding territory and how territory is organized. So architecture and urban planning are not neutral uh practices but rather effective technologies that can materialize and specialized political ideologies. These tools shape people's lived environments and when contingent upon certain ideologies such as racism and white supremacy they can become quite a herandic environment. A a newly planned road, for instance, has the potential, and we've seen it happening so often, to split communities right down in the middle. A newly planned forest may uh remove people from their historical cultural lands that has sustained them for generations. Um, for example, I've been in the past since 2020, I've been following closely a small farm in Gaza located along the southern eastern border. You see that dot there? It's just across from the new O settlement. So I've been documenting the daily life of the farmers there and how their lives are impacted by various Israeli security pro protocols and military actions. Uh the farm that has been essentially erased in the newly proposed US master plan for Gaza parts of the farm are now slated to become a a clear buffer zone. H the other part is designated to become a new data center and [clears throat] um yeah there is where I can show but so what you see here is that fertile agricultural fields are giving ways to this new logic one that serves the demands of security and the dig digital economy rather than the needs of the people. H these are images that arises received from the farmers. So when we fail to grapple with this entanglements when we overlook the very real human consequences that is where design becomes an active tool of violence and displacement. And again these are these are images that I received from the farmers. they managed to go during one of the ceasefires to see what's happening with their homes and they find it in a total way. So with the work that they do with bus with the foundation for achie achieving single territory we use design tools to reveal the systemic violence or the systemic violence that manifest in the built environment and in the territory itself. mapping how certain spial configuration create this infrastructure of segregation control and inclusion exclusion. Another project you ask us to speak about hope and I try to find it also in my own work and try to find ways to interpret what hope means in this space. So this is another example of it's actually the first project I've ever done after finishing school and um It's the reason why I set up a fast advantage in this territory and um I wanted to create a platform through which I could help a community of internally distressed persons in Israel, Palestinian community. They were facing another master plan that was issued by the Israeli planning authorities and and reshaping their village constraining it its growth and entangling them in this nightmarish bureaucratic process. H so under this master plan the residents would have to register and legalize their homes one by one. H but the problem was that not all the homes were situated according to the zones designated for housing about fourth of the village space the municipal line was literally stated as an active firing zone for military practice. Uh so I've known the community for many years and when I read this that this master plan was approved I called the mayor of the of this village and after a long conversation we decided to launch an architecture competition an international competition to engage the professional design community to help us think otherwise. Part of the submissions were completely open, a competition of ideas and the other part was more pragmatic given the context and its complexity, the history of the community and the associated constraints. Erh, we try to design um a plan that could actually help the local community to have a tool that allows them to sit at the table and start negotiating for their rights. So we brought the winning teams of this exhibition to work together with the local villagers and act as translators and mediators turning people's idea and needs into special forms and we use design to produce an alternative again master plan uh to use as a negotiation tools tool for the community. So for me special design is fun fundamentally relational and this is where I find hope because it can also and I don't want to be naive here it's extremely complex it it can tie things so special design can tie things together in space it can mediate between policy makers communities and other experts through design you can bring economic life into the city connect homes to workplace to parks to spaces of leisure. Uh it is uh a practice that teaches you to imagine transformation across time and scale and to consolidate abstract idea into form. It can be beautiful and powerful and even liberating because it helps us imagine what else is possible. H but I often notice that our imagination the public imagination is extremely limited by uh what we know or think we know because imagination is also political, it's social, it's cultural, it is shaped by walls we are exposed to. Uh but it can help us push the the boundaries of um you know like of what we think is possible and imagine a radical difference futures that challenge present violence and inequalities and make space for more just and caring ways of living together. Um so design not only invite us to imagine another world, it also gives us tools to work out the pragmatic steps needed to bring that world into being and again I don't want to be over optimistic here or actually I do want to be over optimistic because I think we do need we have to uh start imagining a world otherwise because so many of the systems that we put into place as you mentioned are falling apart and this is a scale that might that is maybe too tangible or too small but it's a &gt;&gt; thank you Michael so we have until 6:15 before opening up to the to audience Q&amp;A any anything now that the four panelists have heard from each other anything you'd like to point out or maybe ask um add a comment add a footnote anything like In which case, let's open it up. So, um I would typically ask you to introduce yourself and that is still appreciated if you do, but since we are recording and in fact on the air, I will uh I will I will not um in fact ask you to do it. Uh uh even if I know you, I will not call you by name for for that reason. So, floor is open. Yes, please. Thank you so much for being here. This was a very interesting conversation. My name is Abda and I'm an MDP student here at the Kennedy School. Um my question is in the current environment, what is the role for Arab states that have peace treaties with Israel at the moment, both Jordan and Egypt and also the Abraham signatures sort of move us again from from despair to hope. Maybe you should pick one out. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I can start, I guess. So, you know, [clears throat] oh, I think I turned it off. Okay. Yeah. So the role of the Arab uh states in you know trying to get to a resolution between Israelis and Palestinians. I think it's very complicated their role. they're very divided. They're not united. Uh and they have different uh national interests that are impacting their ability to come together. you know, and you know, to support a just future for Palestine. And, you know, there was um well, let me step back. If you think about some of these um cases that I was talking about, the the ICJ case, um the genocide case, for example, there's almost two dozen countries that have intervened mostly in support of South Africa. I think there's only one Arab country. I think it's Libya perhaps, but no others that have joined that. On the other hand, uh pretty much all of the Arab countries participated in oral arguments and issued um or submitted briefs in the ICJ advisory opinion. Uh and you might you know you might think that um that's logical actually because countries like Egypt and Jordan you know they have a stake in what happens um in terms of the territorial issues and in terms of refugee issues and Lebanon as well. Um so there was engagement there. the Arab countries came together uh to support the high level conference um to uh you know for the Palestinian question the Palestine question they came together for that and the global alliance so you you see some activity and I thought it was very significant that Saudi Arabia was leading both the effort um at the high level conference and uh at the global alliance level but at the end of the Today, Jordan, for example, and Egypt, neighbors of Israel and Palestine, um are very weak states and very dependent on the United States for their u economic assistance and military assistance. You have Jordan u uh housing military, US military bases as well throughout the Gulf. you have US military bases as you know and so it makes it very difficult for these countries who are depending on the US for security and other assistance to take a very confrontational role with um the United States. Uh but you and you did see all the Gulf countries just about contribute towards the um the fund for Gaza Reconstruction uh with the border of peace. But again without any kind of transparency or accountability, we don't know where this money is going to go that they've donated. I think four countries donated a billion or more. Um, so we don't know where the money is going to go, where the account is going to be held, or who's going to have access to it, and how it's going to be spent. All we know is that Trump's in charge of that money [laughter] in his personal capacity even after he leaves office. So, um, you know, so it's very, uh, complicated. uh the the um Arab I don't I don't see um the Abraham Accords countries um you know withdrawing from the Abraham Accords or I don't see Jordan and Egypt or Egypt you know uh saying that they're going to pull out of the peace agreements with with Israel um again for the same you know the same reason they're just too dependent on the US right now although you know Um there is some hedging going on. We're starting to see countries realize that they can't they can't um trust that the US will provide them with the security they thought they were bargaining for um with this new with this war on Iran. Um, and so there is some uh discontent, let's say, with the relationship and there's going to be a reckoning. How that's going to impact the situation in Palestine remains to be seen. But there is a a re-evaluation, I think, happening with a lot of countries uh in terms of like whether or not having US bases in in our countries is actually making them more secure or making them a target. Can I add &gt;&gt; the the person who negotiated the Abraham Accords during the first Trump administration was General Miguel Korea and he gave a very eyeopening interview to a publication called the Jewish Decider. He said that the purpose of the Abraham Accords was to place Palestinians on an island. So that's what the Abraham Accords are about is to normalize relations between Israel and Arab states without Palestinians achieving any of their individual and national collective rights. That is the purpose of the Abraham Accords. And let's be quite clear, Trump, as we all know, is incredibly transactional in everything that he does. And to put it quite bluntly, he gave bribes to Arab states to enter into these Abraham courts. All four of the countries that normalized to one degree or another with Israel during the first Trump administration, Morocco, Sudan, Bahrain, and the UAE all got something out of it. Morocco got recognition of its illegal annexation of the Western Sahara and advanced US weaponry. Sudan got delisted from the terrorism list which allowed trade and investment flows in. The UAE and Bahrain both got advanced US weaponry and in the case of the UAE that weaponry was turned against Yemen civilians in the civil war there and to perpetuate genocide in Sudan. So these are the realities of what the Abraham of course constructed regionally and it's not only bad for Palestinian human rights but it's bad for human rights throughout the region. It's uh it's a deal with autocratic regimes to bolster their positions and to enable them to advance their anti-democratic positions as well as the anti-democratic position taken toward the Palestinian people. Yes. Yeah. Hi, I'm Ken um alumni from 2018, but I wanted to thank all the participants for a wonderful discussion tonight. My question is going to be for Professor Rupner, but I think the other panelists can answer as well. Um in Washington DC, there was a a study by the Democratic National Committee to kind of um assess what happened wrong with the Harris campaign and I know Professor Rner's organization worked on that, the IMEU. And um can you guys talk a little bit about the changing political landscape about the Palestine issue in maybe not just Democratic politics but Republican as well? &gt;&gt; Yes. So, our organization commissioned a study after Harris's defeat to Trump in 2024, and we asked people who voted for Biden in 2020 and who did not vote for Harris in 2024, what was the number one reason why you didn't vote for Harris in 2024. You know what the answer we found was? It wasn't healthcare. It wasn't women's reproductive rights. It wasn't the economy. It wasn't anything else except Gossip. GSA was the number one reason why people withheld their votes from Kla Harris in 2024 when they voted Democratic in 2020. So some of the uh leadership of the Democratic Party would like to pretend that this issue doesn't matter. But this is an issue that motivates the base of the Democratic Party, embracing Palestinian rights by this younger generation of politicians who were seeing running for office as a way to actually turn out new voters in support of Democrats. And poll after poll has shown this and it's really interesting. We're a really revolutionary time in the history of the United States because never ever ever before have candidates run on a position differentiating themselves from other candidates and saying, "I'm pro- Palestine. I want to end weapons to Israel." And some of them are doing that because that's the morally correct position to take and it is the morally correct position to take. But others are making a political calculation too. They see these public opinion polls. They understand which way the wind is blowing. So we are and this is something that gives me a lot of hope and something that Yousef talked about in his remarks. We are seeing these huge huge shifts underway and I think that they are going to have a dramatic impact on our politics. &gt;&gt; Just just want to add to that a little bit because I think there's there is something else interesting going on with with um the Palestine issue in American politics. Um, one of the things that's happened over time as public opinion has shifted, uh, is that pro-Israel interest groups who had previously been less outfront in terms of their involvement in American politics have had to get far more publicly involved in American politics. Um, APAT, for example, began developing attack, investing tens of millions of dollars in primaries and really getting directly involved in overt ways, right? Um, in determining electoral outcomes. That was never the case before. Okay. So, these two things are happening in the same time and in many ways um as a response to each other. Public opinion is shifting, moving in a direction that is more critical of Israel. pro-Israel interest groups in response are trying to hold on to the ground that they've established by supporting uh the candidates that will hold that line. Okay. So, I think one of the things that's really interesting in this moment is that Palestine is functioning in many ways as a prism through which people see candidates as authentic or inauthentic. not not simply based on what their politics are on Palestine, but becomes it becomes a proxy for authenticity. So when you have 80 some odd percent of of Democrats saying that they want to see an end to military sales to Israel and then you have the leaders of the Democratic party sounding the exact opposite tone. Right? Well, that sends a message that these people are out of touch. They don't represent me. They don't represent our party. They don't represent the base. So who do they represent? Right? And I think for for Donald Trump, okay, whatever one will say about him, okay, the thing that I think he successfully tapped into is that he didn't pretend to be somebody that he's not. He told you who he was, right? He was very clear about who he was. Everybody saw who he was. And for many people that was appealing because they knew what they were getting. And I think with a lot of candidates, there's a lot of voters who when they look at them, they don't know what they're getting. They don't know what they actually represent. Are they really interested in my perspectives representing me or are they interested in representing the interests of special interest groups who might be making significant contributions to their campaigns? Right. So I think more than ever before this issue has become a proxy for authenticity in American politics which is completely separate from the moral issue by the way of US policy and how it is impacting Palestinians. And it's led to a very different conversation that goes beyond the part of the political spectrum that is valuesdriven okay or at least driven by the values of human rights and equality and so on. Uh and this is why we are starting to see I think even more of a conversation across the political spectrum on this issue because people identify that there is something clearly wrong here. They may not be able to perfectly put their finger on what it is but they know that it doesn't make sense. And when they see politicians acting in that way it raises major red flags. &gt;&gt; Yes. Hello, my name is Le. I'm Israelian. I would shortly to say that you know I represent myself in Israel. There is as any society different opinions, different people. So a I'm very sorry for all suffering what's happening to Palestinian people. Uh as I'm sorry for suffering what's happening for Israeli Jewish people. Uh second I'm not expert in this topic as I know there is not official acceptable research or any judgment decision what Israel do in Gaza. So I find it's very problematically to use sound for me that this kind of there is agreement that this has happened. I think it's not it's important to say this is not that I as I know maybe I don't know but it's any nothing official official that this is what happening in Gaza happened different difficult sometimes bad things as I know but I don't think it's getting person my question is that in my I'm educator and psychologist and I know usually when we try to solve some conflict you know distant personal level it's Actually in Israel each time I meet some Israeli guy who say something against Arabs time there is people like this and first first of all as person do I say I'm against it they're trying to convince but when we try to solve conflict I usually I think it's more effective when each side first of all start to check something about what change in in in my side they have to do as I have opinion maybe it's wrong but some large population of Palestinian people from different reasons probably related to education they kind of have a strong negative probably very aggressive position to Israeli people and some of them ready to die as a you know as just to kill Israelis maybe it's wrong I don't know so my question is what if your opinion if you don't have some change have to be done in Palestinian side because I in this discussion said hear a lot about Israel that Israel can be you know changed or what is really not good but what about Palestinian side is anything probably can be changed to you know to make more chance for peace. &gt;&gt; You want to direct that against to anyone in particular? It's pretty funny. Anyway, &gt;&gt; I can say some words. &gt;&gt; I think you had two pieces to your question. I think the first one was about Palestinians and how they view Israelis, Israeli Jews in particular, and what do Palestinians need to change or what do they need to do to to support a resolution with Israel? Is that what your question? Yeah. So just you know to be clear you know Palestinians know Israelis only by the Israeli military. We you know are a very segregated community because it's apartheite and so the space that Palestinians occupy with Israelis is very limited. It's only soldier to occupy level you know. So that's what that's what Palestinians know about Israelis unless you live in a place like Jerusalem, right? And then you are if you're a Palestinian, you are very insecure because Palestinians in East Jerusalem are facing dispossession and a very um uh well ststructured plan to remove them from the city u because of the demographic concerns Israel has. If you're a Palestinian citizen of Israel, you are not equal to your Israeli Jewish neighbor. And so the way you relate to your Israeli Jewish neighbor, I this is under law, right? It's the constitutional issue. Basic the basic law um says that only Jews have an exclusive right to self-determination, right? So, so this is the way Palestinians relate to Israelis in the different geographies that make up historic Palestine or Israel Palestine. So, in that context, you will understand that there will be um uh resistance to being dehumanized in that way. So, it's not I'm I'm actually floored every time I travel to Palestine at just how patient people are, you know, how patient they are when they're forced to line up at checkpoints and they're humiliated, how patient they are in, you know, the delays that going from one village to another. I I don't see that that aggression that you're talking about. I don't see it. But I do see people resisting every single day by by getting up and trying to go to work, trying to get to school, trying to cross the checkpoint, trying to go pray in Jerusalem, even though it's it's an hideous nightmare when you try to do that on a Friday or if you try to do that on your holiday. Sometimes you don't even get to go, right? The the Ela mosque was closed uh during Ramadan. Uh so so that's I just wanted to put that out there because I think there is I don't know how much engagement you personally have as an Israeli with Palestinians. Do you are you able to engage with them just yet you could just Yeah. Yes or no? I don't know how much &gt;&gt; it's not yes or no. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Okay. But anyway, so that's that part of it in terms of what Palestinians need to do. I mean I just look at the ICJ opinion advisory opinion. We need to end the occupation and that's not in Palestinians hands. Yes, Palestinians have some agency and I'll tell you what they what they need to do. It's internal. They need to um be able to uh have national reconciliation. They need to figure out a common strategy and get to a consensus. There needs there need to be Palestinian elections, but elections under occupation are incredibly difficult. So I would prefer to see a national dialogue that results in some positions of consensus that move us forward towards a strategy for liberation. Um but that's that's what Palestinians need to do. It's not on Palestinians to provide Israeli security. That's what the ICJ said. It's not on Palestinians to um to end the occupation. That's what Israel has to do, you know. Um, and then as equals there can be a negotiation around what the future of Israelis and Palestinians can look like. You know, whatever that looks like, whether it's one state with equal rights or whether that's two states or whether that's, you know, a confederate system. I mean, Palestinians don't even have consensus on these kinds of issues about their future. You know, if you you look at polling of Palestinians inside the occupied territories, you know, you'll see that it's not, you know, the support for one state is very low, but if you ask DASP for a Palestinians or Palestinians in refugee camps, you might find out that, you know, one state solution is the preferred solution, you know. So there's a lot of work Palestinians need to do as a community among themselves, but it's not on Palestinians to end the genocide or it's not on Palestinians to end the occupation. You know, that's that's on those who are um you know controlling their their life to do. &gt;&gt; Is it one more? &gt;&gt; Thank you. I closed it. &gt;&gt; Thank you so much for providing this answer. Um I just want to say one thing there is so much data and so much information available that shows that this conversation is standing on research and it's not just a subjective kind of you know just say things there are &gt;&gt; so many reports so many like data is available you can find it &gt;&gt; oh I find I I saw &gt;&gt; but that's to say for &gt;&gt; it's not subjective there the research would say yes, but it's other nog agreement. &gt;&gt; No, no. &gt;&gt; So, um just a couple things. Um I appreciate your question. I would say that um there's plenty of internal criticism on the Palestinian Act. Uh that criticism may move Palestinians and I think would move Palestinians in in a different direction than the one you think it might move them in. In other words, not necessarily to be more likely to compromise their rights towards Israel, but to move in a direction to stand firmer in their opposition to compromising on their rights with Israel. Um, and if you're ever interested in in seeing those debates, you could spend a little bit of time on on social media and look at the discussion around the Palestinian Authority, the PLO, and very other outofdate institutions that there's no doubt have failed Palestinians in many ways. the criticism is is robust and it's there. I just don't think the idea that that's that's the missing piece here uh is is correct. The other thing I wanted to say on the on the genocide piece um I to me it it's clear. I understand that to others that may not be clear but for many people who study these issues, experts on these issues, the International Association of Genocide Scholars and so on, um it is clear, the evidence is clear. There's a legal concept and there's a legal process, right, for coming to that conclusion. We'll see that play out perhaps in the International Court of Justice. But there's there's also the the idea of the concept on its own, not just the the the legal determination. And most people who study genocide across the spectrum of genocide scholars have come to the conclusion that what what we have witnessed is a genocide. Putting that aside for a second. Okay. Uh this debate on does it does it rise to the level of genocide or not to me seems like a peculiar one. Okay. Um there is no reasonable person that I have encountered that is willing to argue that not only is it not a genocide but also there were not massive war crimes committed. I think everybody is in agreement that we've watched war crimes on a regular basis day in and day out for several years in Gaza. &gt;&gt; There's a very big difference between war crimes. &gt;&gt; Not to the people who are being killed. They're being killed the same way &gt;&gt; because every war has war cranks almost. &gt;&gt; Well, &gt;&gt; and there's not every war is a genocide. So, it's &gt;&gt; I understand and I do I want to be clear. I do think that this was genocide. I do think there is a legal process that can and will play out. I also do think that the evidence is there separate from that legal process to determine that that is what took place. But what I'm saying for us in this room and elsewhere, we should be horrified by what took place regardless to the words. Regardless to the words, we should be demanding the highest levels of accountability, regardless to the labels that we can slap on this. I mean, we watched live streamed war crimes every single day for two years that were being posted by the perpetrators in celebratory fashion. There has been zero accountability for this. That alone should outrage us whether you agree that this label should be stuck to it or that. Unless you want to tell me that also war crimes didn't take place and perhaps there are people who believe that. I just don't think that they're reasonable, right? I think most people are making the argument, I'm not sure it really rises to the level of genocide. Put that aside. Will you demand accountability for systematic war crimes? If not, then we can't really have a serious conversation about anything. Right. So, that's that's just what I wanted to say about the the genocide piece. &gt;&gt; I get it. &gt;&gt; Yeah. 81 years ago this month, the Allies [snorts] liberated the Nazi extermination camps. Hitler committed suicide in his bunker, bringing to the end the war in Europe and the genocide against the Jewish people of Europe. There are still today many many Jewish people who will not forgive Germany and who hates all Germans and who boycott all German goods. People who still will not buy Volkswagens because of Volkswagen's complicities in the Nazi war regime. Okay. Now, we can have a conversation about whether they are justified in that ongoing hatred or not. But the point I want to make is that no country in my mind has done more than Germany to atone for its historic crimes that it committed. No country has gone so far as to pay the amount of ongoing reparations that Germany has paid and continues to pay to Holocaust survivors. So when you think about that fact that the Holocaust ended 80 plus years ago and despite the historic steps towards reconciliation that Germany has made, there's still so much hatred most Jewish people towards Germany today. How can you expect Palestinians not to hate their oppression when it's still ongoing today? When we're still in the midst of an ongoing genocide? when Israel is still inflicting an ongoing neck against the Palestinian people. Palestinians don't hate Israelis because they're Israelis. Palestinians hate the oppression that they suffer. And you know what? If they didn't hate that oppression, they wouldn't be human. They would be survile. They would be slaves. Because to accept and not hate this oppression is to give up on your freedom. And so we can expect that Palestinians will end their hatred of their oppression only when the oppressors stop their oppression. [applause] &gt;&gt; We we are technically out of time but we don't have these guys a lot and obviously a lot of strong things have been said. So please thank you. Hi my name is Barack. I'm a re senior research fellow at the Middle East initiative and first of all I want to thank the panel and I think it's important that we live in a country that you know prioritizes free speech um allows people to express views according to the IH definition of anti-semitism that Harvard has accepted comparing comparing Zionism to Nazism blood and soil in the first sentence which I think again I totally oppose, but I also respect the importance of allowing to express anti-semitic views on a public stage. So, I'm happy to be part of this country. Um, invoking the Holocaust, I think you need to remember that first of all, a few years after the Holocaust, Israelis agreed to the reparations plan. Um and I think describing today that Israel is majority of Israelis hate Germany is detached from reality. Now I agree that the oppression and the violence inflicted both on Palestinians and Israelis is a great reason to create a lot of pain and hate. For example, Kiput O, which was right across of the farm that you described, which 30% of its inhabitants, 130 out of 400 were either kidnapped or murdered on October 7th. The pain which is inflicted on both sides is immense. In the same way, national rights which we've been advocating for Palestinians are rights that Jews have as well. And I find it surprising. How do we want to go to a resolution to a place where we can live in a Middle East where Muslims and Jews live together without killing each other? If we don't recognize if if we call Zionism, which 86% of Jews in the US, by the way, not identify as Zionist, but only 14% identify as anti-Zionist. 85% of Israelis, Jewish Israelis identify as Zionists, see Zionism as the movement for Jewish self-determination in their historic homeland. The same homeland which on Pesah the Israelites left Egypt into eventually after 40 years in the desert into Israel. How can we expect to their one day of your resolution with all the pain and immense suffering and thousands of dead on both sides and war crimes? I just came back from Tel Aviv and had a missile fall 50 meters from my apartment in the center of an urban center. Is that not a war crime? Firing cluster missiles that have no way to target military installations. most of the missile. So war crimes are plenty when can we come to a place as an Israeli I want to recognize the right of Palestinians for self-determination for national self-determination to live as free people with full rights. How do we get to a place where we recognize that mutually if we define Zionism, the movement that took a a nation of refugees? My parents, my grandparents are also Holocaust survivors. How can we do that without this dual reciprocal recognition? &gt;&gt; Thank you, Barack. Let's see whether there's any other questions or comments and then I just skip the let's let's have these two hands and then we'll go for concluding round of the panelists. &gt;&gt; Right. Right. Yeah. And then the gentleman has ahead. &gt;&gt; Um so yeah thanks for the talk. It was really really good uh really interesting. My question is about um the way in which I guess identity plays a part in this entire conflict and how those identities have to be shaped going forward. Um specifically on the Israeli identity, I wonder if you know because obviously a lot of the the argument is it hinges upon this argument of like indigenity and belonging to the land. And without going into whether, you know, a judgment of whether that's accurate or not, I wonder if there is a formation of an Israeli identity that allows for the presence of Palestinian people in the Palestinian state in the same way as sort of we hope for. Um, [clears throat] so when we talk about the road ahead for Palestine, in what ways does that identity have to be reconstituted and reimagined? And does the Palestinian identity also have to be re reimagined, reconstituted in any way for for, you know, whatever the desired road ahead actually looks like? Um, and is this conversation about how these people think of themselves and their belonging to the land even relevant going forward? Is that something that we want to be considering at all? Okay, gentlemen in the front and then I would ask each of the panelists beginning with Zaha to speak u concluding thoughts responding to whatever they want to respond to from the questions. &gt;&gt; I had a question about Mal Pete to M Pete and about the presentation that you gave to us. um your part of your presentation focused on a project that you did in ID as I recall and um I I have to apologize that uh I am I was I I remember I for many years ago uh but I couldn't follow exactly what your project involved. I'm going to have to do that when I go home. I'll do some Google searching and try to find out your project. But but I gathered that I wanted to just clarify in my own mind then ask you a question. Um the Iron Hood is is actually located in San of of Hyundai. Is that not correct? So it was in Israel 48. And uh the question I had for you was that it was my understanding in your project you demonstrated how development took place in both the Jewish settlement of of similar name and the Palestinian or Arab settlement of a similar name that almost adjacent to one another. Um and the question I had for you is that this this project not your project but the the the development project took place in an environment where in fact uh there was a population uh within the within the governmental even of about 80% Jewish people and about 20% non-Jewish people and it was permitted that I guess the Arab development could take place in the Einhide community. Is that is my understanding correct about that? that that that that that was a development in the Arab section of the Arab portion of I can't pronounce these words. &gt;&gt; So that's a that's &gt;&gt; question and I just and I want to just follow that up and say that if that's if my if my understanding is correct I wondered how that principle could be extended to the West Bank and to Gaza where in fact the demographic balance was completely different than it existed in Israel 48. answer the question but but it's conditioned on my understanding of what you did and I have there. Thank you. &gt;&gt; So M before you get to that let's let's just go in the order in which you're seated on the table. So just beginning with the with &gt;&gt; Okay. So just quickly because I know we're out of time on this question of of identity. I find this a very very important question if we're going to think about a future in which you know as as we're talking about a one-state solution if we're thinking about a future in which Israelis and Palestinians can live together then we do need to think about a different identity or or a more expansive identity that would enable Palestinians and Israelis to live as equals on the land. That's going to take really deconstructing the whole relationship that has been constructed over the last, you know, so many decades between Israelis and Palestinians, one of racial supremacy. Um, and that's going to take a lot of time. And there are conversations taking place that are very, um, you know, they're very, uh, preliminary and, um, very tender because of the moment that we're in. or Palestinians feel a need to uh hold on to their national identity especially when um you know they're facing a genocide. Um so so there is some conversation starting along those lines of how do you how do we reimagine uh you know our national identity how do we reimagine citizenship in a shared land so I think that's a very interesting u exploration that needs to happen um and barack on your question um I don't know if it was really a question but I &gt;&gt; no there was my realizing mutual map Yeah. So, but there was a lot of um religious symbolism and a religious uh you know uh you know there was a you brought up [laughter] the the religious connections and you made a distinction between Jews and Muslims and I really don't see this as a religious issue. I see this as a rights issue and if you look at look at it as a rights issue then you know we have a lot a lot of source material that we can't refer to and we like I said we just had this very important ICJ advisory opinion which was a a statement of law that talked about the relationship between Israelis and Palestinians and the need to end the occupation the need to give Palestinians their rights. Israelis have rights in the state of Israel and they have rights in the occupied Palestinian territories because of the extension of of Israeli law into the occupied territories. Palestinians don't. We just saw a few days ago a penal law that was passed by the Israeli Knesset that um mandates the killing of Palestinians um who have uh been alleged to have killed Israeli Jews. mandated to be hung and um you know we know that the rate of conviction for Palestinians is 96% in the military court system that Israel has for Palestinians in the occupied territory. So that's the reality that we're living in right now. So this notion that Palestinians need to recognize Jewish national self-determination. Palis the PLO recognized the state of Israel in 1988 and we're still being asked to recognize what you know [laughter] um after that. I think that the moment calls for um a recognition of Palestinian rights and a recognition of what uh you know the international law says about Palestinian rights, what it says about respect for Palestinians being able to live on their land. So I I'll just leave it there. um just say a few words about because of time about the questions you just asked me. I don't know if this is one um and okay so you know like the Palestinian oppression and this possession didn't start now it's started over than a century ago and what happened in an hood and my involvement with this project is contingent to another project that I've done which is the atlas to try to map and understand the transformation of the country over the last 100 years. So really going decade by decade showing this this trans transformation and one of the spaces that I wanted to document was the unrecognized Palestinian villages within Israel and K is one of them and those are maps that you don't see on the those are localities that you cannot see on the national maps of the country. They have no access to civic services, no access to uh infrastructure, greed and uh um and so on. It's very complex. I mean I I wrote a book about it. So uh you can find it there. But uh so I spend half of like part of my my time at the Technon studying architecture. Another time and another part of my time spending at the human right organization called the association of 40 representing the people living in unrecognized villages in court to fight against home demolition. H and there I learned you know like on one hand you learn how to construct and produce this this uh you know uh this landscape and on the other hand you see like the outcome consequences of those design at least this is was my experience and I kept in I I got to know the community of food there. I was doing in Kifa very close by and uh um and from that this project started trying to understand like how we can use design to as a for to raise awareness towards what is happening how we can understand from one locality the transformation of the entire country because many of the tools that were used to h take over and hold the Palestinian village were used in other places. There are set of tools center colonialism you know it's like buy the book step by step way of changing the name changing the history rewriting the history populating it with a different population and not having any accountability for this entire process. Um, and my engagement as an architect or as special designer was to work with a community of a displaced community that that remain in the area but was never recognized uh by the by Israel as legal citizens in that space and they suffered for 50 years all sorts of um uh from all sorts of um like the consequences of this nonrecognition in their existence um and this whole process is documented. &gt;&gt; Thank you Josh. &gt;&gt; Absolutely. When Iran targets buildings of civilians in Tel Aviv or anywhere else with cluster munitions, those are war crimes 100%. Anytime Hamas deliberately attacks and massacres Israeli civilians, 100% those are war crimes. I believe in human rights. I believe in the dignity of all people. I believe in the universality of international law. And I have no problem applying the same standards in all of these cases as we all should. And I believe fundamentally that all people should be held accountable for any war crimes or crimes against humanity that they commit. And I also recognize that so many people suffer. An Israeli mother doesn't suffer any less than a Palestinian mother suffers when their child is killed from political violence. that type of human suffering transcends any national or ideological bounds. So 100% I agree with you that there's too much suffering. The question is how do we put an end to the suffering? And I agree with you. How do we conceptualize how Israelis and Palestinians can share the land as equals? Recognizing that Zionism has successfully created a very dynamic and vibrant Hebrew Israeli society over the last 150 years of colonization. I don't think Israelis are going anywhere. I don't think Palestinians are going anywhere. I think that the two people for better or for worse are faded to live and share the same land and that has been the result of historical processes. I don't think there's an undoing of that process and I agree 100% with you Barack is how do we get to a better place where there is no suffering and I don't believe that we can get there without dismantling the inequitable racist apartheid regime of Israel. I fundamentally concur with the Israeli human rights organization that from the river to the sea there exists one apartheid regime of Jewish supremacy and this is encapsulated in all of the laws not just the one that Zaha mentioned about the death for terrorists u penalty act we can go back to the very foundational natures of the law of Israel to understand how inequitable and racist they are let's just compare the law of return which grants any Jewish person the right automatically to immigrate to Israel and to gain citizenship while Palestinians who are ethnically cleansed from their homeland are denied the right to return to their very homes and lands and properties. How is that just how is that equitable? So to get to a place where no Palestinian and no Israeli has to suffer, which is something that I very much want to get to. We have to talk about removing structures of injustice and we can only do that and I appreciate the fact that most Israeli Jews are Zionists. That doesn't mean that they're right. I fundamentally believe that Zionism is a racist settler colonial ideology and that just as suffering [snorts] could not end in apartheid South Africa without ending the racist nature of the apartheid regime and the apartheid ideology. The same holds true for Palestine Israel. There cannot be justice. There cannot be peace. There cannot be an end to the vast human suffering that we're seeing until the the racist nature of the Zionist regime is dismantled. &gt;&gt; Mr. Finals. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um so I just want to say it's very peculiar to me as as as a Palestinian to hear why don't we just have a mutual recognition of national sovereignty? uh if if Zionists uh recognized the national self-determination of Palestinians, there wouldn't be a state of is the state of Israel was built over the objections of the vast majority of the population of the people living in Palestine. Its existence is a fundamental denial of the Palestinian right to self-determination. Okay. Um that's this is this is a matter of fact. In fact, when the British were supporting Zionist policy, they recognized this and said as much. They said, "Well, you know, the weak point of our position is that we talk about self-determination, but there's 800,000 people here who don't want the Zionist project we're supporting." So, all of these years later to say, "Why not now? We have mutual recognition of national self-determin." Well, we we should have done that at some point, right? That could have happened at some point, but that was not the path that was chosen. Okay, that being said, I'm not a zero- sum person. I don't believe there is a zero- sum outcome here. Okay, there are some people uh among the uh uh Israeli side that might say the answer is we need to get rid of all the Arabs. This is the answer, zero sum. And there may be some among Palestinians who say the answer is the Algeria model. We need all the Israelis to leave. I I I think both of these sides are wrong. I've written about this. I'm very clear about this. I believe that there has to be a form of compromise. I don't believe the compromise is on the rights of Palestinians. This is the difference. I will share here with you just a a final parable uh for you to think about that someone shared with me what once that I thought was very helpful. Two bakers were arguing over who was going to get the last orange that was available in the kitchen. Okay? and they were ready to fight it out over this last. Neither of them were willing to compromise. Splitting it down the middle would not suffice. They both needed the entire orange. And finally, a third baker intervened and was able to come up with a solution because he was able to understand what both sides genuinely needed to get to where they needed to go. Okay. What he understood was that one needed the entire rind for the zest in a particular recipe whereas the other needed the entire pulp for the juice in the recipe that he needed. There's more than one way to split an orange. There's more than one way to satisfy the needs of different peoples, but you have to get to the core of what they need, the core of what they deserve. And that doesn't happen with one group dominating the other. So I will leave you with that. &gt;&gt; Thank you. So first of all, thank you to the uh I hope you give them another round of applause. Let me say thanks. So thank you first of all to you guys for still being here. That obviously speaks to the relevance of the topic. Thank you also especially for the push back. We need to have these different perspectives in this and just generally the theme of this this series that we have a strong pain to hope question mark. And if there is to be hope, we need to bring these different perspectives in in that spirit. Uh I also did a webinar earlier this week with the Israeli journalist Amit Seagal that will be out on our YouTube channel very soon that all got you all is out now is out now. Yeah. That you all to watch because the this is a very important set also of Israeli perspectives that he articulates and again we need to understand the whole range to see what kind of possibilities for hope there are. Um so um first of all of course and thank you to the panel for being here for articulating these views for sharing your insights for the work that you do and thank you for sharing your time and and energy with us too. Nice. [applause]