# YouTube Video 6idTiFpktB8

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6idTiFpktB8
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 29446 词

---

I did everything right and they indicted me and I don't know what the I'm doing. Hello everyone and welcome to a historic edition of the Katie Halper Show. Not because of anything we are doing, but because of stuff that's happening in the world. I'm so uh excited to be here with you guys and I'm so excited to be here with a bunch of amazing guests. We have someone who's making her uh Katie Helper Show debut. I'm really excited. I've been wanting to have her on for a while. Uh and that is Samira Moyaden who is a journalist, an award-winning journalist. Uh she was at the BBC for a bunch of years, then she resigned and she started her own program uh called On the Line Media, which you have to subscribe to. You got to subscribe to that uh YouTube channel and uh if you haven't already. Uh and uh you know so many interesting things to say about Samira, but I will say that in addition to completing a genocide studies at the Zerion Institute and having a postgraduate journalism degree from Centennial Colleg's story art center. She also has a master of arts in modern Middle East history. That's also cool. from Toronto, but she is also a trained Shakespeareian actor and graduate of the American Musical and Dramatic Academy in New York City. So, she truly is a Renaissance woman. She's based in Canada. She her family is from Iran and we're going be talking to her about so many things ranging from Iran to media bias, which is something that she covers uh in an excellent way uh at On the Line. Um speaking of subscribing, please do subscribe as well to this channel, to the Katie Helper Show. you definitely want to do that because we have been doing these extra streams. We stream with people who are based in Iran or people who are based in uh Western Asia, aka the Middle East. Uh we stream with people all over the world. And so we don't always know in advance when that's going to happen. So the way that you can make sure you do know about it is uh by uh subscribing. So you hit subscribe and then the bell. Also like the stream whenever you watch this, whenever you're seeing this, whether you're watching live or later on, like the stream. And please do become Patreon supporters at patreon.com/thekatyhelper show. Again, that's patreon.com/thekatyateler show. This week's Patreon is amazing. It is an interview I did with Ncap, the Irish uh musical group who uh rap in uh in Irish, the language as in Gaelic, as in Irish. They call it Irish though because they're different Gaelics. And I was in Cuba with them. So the interview uh was done in Cuba. It's it's great. Um and so you'll get that early at Patreon. patreon.comthekatyhelper show. Uh, after I speak to Samira, I'll be speaking to legendary political scientist Norman Finkelestein. After I speak to Norman Finkelestein, I will speak to ex-military veter. No, I will speak to anti-war military veterans Greg Stoker and Anthony Aguilar. Anthony Agalar you may know as being the whistleblower blower who exposed what was happening at the Gaza Hunger uh foundation aka the Ga Gaza Holocaust Foundation. That's what uh Aaron Mate called it very appropriately where they lured people to their death by promising them food in a way in an act that was pretty reminiscent of what the Nazis did with concentration camps uh getting them to board the trains etc. Um okay so uh stick around for this whole show. It's really going to be great. And again, like, subscribe, and um and join the Patreon patreon.com/thekatyhalper show. If you can't swing the $5 a month, which is the level that gives you bonus content, then please just make the show happen by supporting the show at $1 a month. That's $12 a year. Okay. So, we are going to bring on Samira. Samira, welcome. &gt;&gt; Hello. &gt;&gt; Hi. How are you? &gt;&gt; Oh, [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; How is anyone right now? What is it time is it? I am. We are 50 minutes away from Armageddon Iran style. &gt;&gt; Well, actually, Samira, I told you not to check right before because I was like, did you hear what Trump said? And you said, no, not yet. And so, we are going to show you what Trump said recently. Nate, what time was it that he said this? This was as of what time? Uh right before um &gt;&gt; you're killing me. &gt;&gt; This is breaking news. Um let us play this breaking news from Donald Trump. &gt;&gt; Brad, you're muted. &gt;&gt; Sorry about that. Okay. Just need uh about 30 seconds to pull up the latest. Um &gt;&gt; Okay. Yeah. &gt;&gt; And then we will &gt;&gt; we do you gonna give me a little hint? &gt;&gt; It is. It is not something to &gt;&gt; Oh, I said BBC, but sorry. CBC for &gt;&gt; Yeah, CBC, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. &gt;&gt; I actually knew that too. &gt;&gt; Um I version of the BBC just funding. &gt;&gt; I think also had BBC on the mind because there's a little BBC scandal which we'll talk about shortly. Un unless there is something else. It's not something to play. It's more just something for you to read. &gt;&gt; Um, okay. Let me make sure that I have Yeah, this is Okay, so we have a statement. Let Let me see if I want to make sure I have the latest thing. &gt;&gt; Okay. Yes. Yeah, it's something to read. Yeah, it's something to read. And this was released at uh 6:32 uh Eastern Standard Time. Okay, so Jeremy Schel tweeted, "Trump announces two-week ceasefire with Iran and says, "We received a 10point proposal from Iran and believe it is a workable basis on which to negotiate &gt;&gt; based based on conversations with Prime Minister Shabbaz Sharif and field." Do you want to read this actually? Uh, Samira. Field Marshall Assam Monour of Pakistan and wherein they requested as if Donald Trump would say wherein &gt;&gt; I know &gt;&gt; and wherein they requested that I hold off the destructive force being sent tonight to Iran and subject to the Islamic Republic of Iran agreeing to the complete immediate and safe opening of the Strait of Hormuz. I agree to suspend the bombing and attack of Iran for a period of two weeks. This will be a double-sided ceasefire. The reason for doing so is that we have already met and exceeded all military objectives and are very far along with a definitive agreement concerning long-term peace with Iran and peace in the Middle East. We received a 10-point proposal from Iran and believe it is a workable basis on which to negotiate. Almost all of the various points of past contention have been agreed to between the United States and Iran, but a two-eek period will allow the agreement to be finalized and consummated. Sexy on behalf of the United States of America as president and also representing the country's capital of the Middle East. It is an honor to have this long-term capital problem close to resolution. Thank you for your attention to this matter. President Donald J. Trump. Brilliant. Now, are they going to give Israel the message not to bomb Iran, too, or &gt;&gt; Yeah. Who knows? Yeah. So, so Samira, what are your thoughts on this? I mean, &gt;&gt; I am I'm actually elated. Uh I I there were so many messages coming out of Iran today from friends of mine um who are using very expensive VPNs and they were so [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] afraid of of this um you know, because the bombs are still happening. I mean, that's one of the things that's really crazy. It's such a misnomer to think, oh, there were no bombing of civilian infrastructure up to this point. Um, but the fact that the lights will stay on and the water plants and all of that will keep flowing, I I'm very happy. Very, very happy. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, um I mean, you're not a military analyst and I'm not I that's not why I invited you on. That would be &gt;&gt; although it wore some fatigues for you. &gt;&gt; Yeah, you do. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Um, you give military analyst vibes or military vibes, but what are your thoughts on what how we got here? Um, what do you think is influencing Trump to make this decision? I mean, obviously, for people who don't know, he was threatening to uh he he had a countdown clock and 8:00 p.m. I was actually struggling. I was like, what do I do about the show? Is everyone going to want to know what's going to happen? Uh, how are we going to have the show? Everyone's going to be paying attention. So, uh, not only am I glad there's a ceasefire for the sake of the world, but it's good for the Katie Haler show. &gt;&gt; Cheers. &gt;&gt; Um, so what are you surprised by this outcome to what do you attribute it? Um, I think that, you know, Trump, uh, he may be a bit of a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] and a little maniacal in his statements, but I think that there are people around him still, maybe some of these generals and others who are telling him that it is not a good idea to bomb power plants. And I think he listened. Um, I don't know what's in that 10-point plan um, that Iran sent. I have no idea. And you know the Straits of Hormuz were open to people. They were open to people who weren't bombing Iran, &gt;&gt; right? &gt;&gt; Um and I don't know, you know, what what this plan is. So it's hard to comment on it. However, I was really hoping that something like this would happen. Um and it's it's interesting that Pakistan is the one to have brokered this also. Uh not the usual Oman or other countries. Um, so I'm I I'm really glad. But as to far, you know, your question about how we got here, I think is so multironged because it depends on how far back you want to go. I mean, we can go back to June 2025 when, you know, Iran first started being bombed. And the reason I say that, what's interesting is because for the Iranians, &gt;&gt; they always call this the 13th day. you know, uh, there was the 12- day war and they refer to this entire period as the 13th day. &gt;&gt; So, it really depends how far back you want to go. I mean, the US administration has gone all the way back to 1979 when it counts, you know, um, the hostages that were taken and the um the embassy and the 52 hostages and all that. So, they they bring up the 1982 barracks bombing. I mean, they just have this long list, you know. Of course, they don't consider the fact that America bombed a passenger plane on July 3rd, 1989, killing 289 Iranians over their own waters. None of that is taken into consideration. Um, so I it really, you know, I I I'm elated right now and you can tell I think from just me, but uh I'm very happy for my friends and family who are inside the country. uh tell us about your friends and family inside the country and I'm very happy. I mean I made a joke about how it's good for the Katie Halper show programming but obviously I am very relieved and uh you know let let's actually before I ask you about your friends and family I want to make sure everyone's caught up. So I want to show what Donald Trump had tweeted earlier and the reason that everyone was so uh anxious even more than usual. &gt;&gt; Okay. So, uh, April 7th, uh, at 8:00 a.m., he he true socialed. A whole civilization will die tonight, never to be brought back again. I don't want that to happen, but it probably will. However, now that we have complete and total regime change where different, smarter, and less radicalized minds prevail. Maybe something revolutionarily wonderful can happen. Who knows? All caps. We will find out tonight. One of the most important moments in the long and complex history of the world. 47 years of extortion, corruption, and death will finally end. God bless the great people of Iran. &gt;&gt; Is that a word? Revolutionarily. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I like it. I mean, &gt;&gt; is it is it a word though? &gt;&gt; I don't know. &gt;&gt; I don't think it is. I don't think it is. &gt;&gt; Revolutionarily. That That is not a word. &gt;&gt; You know, Susan Abuhawa today &gt;&gt; revolutionarily wonderful. It's pretty good. &gt;&gt; Tweeted. She she she she posted on X today how a a a fifth grade uh comprehension a man who has a fifth grade comprehension is going to be bombing a 12,000y old civilization. &gt;&gt; Uh you know even as you read that again Katie it sent shivers down my spine. I swear it really did. &gt;&gt; Uh because everything about this war is illegal from the from the start to the opaces under which it was launched. It's disgusting what is happening to 90 million people and for whom? It's vile. &gt;&gt; And and so tell us about your friends and family in Iran and tell us what they're saying and also tell us about your own trajectory um and your family's trajectory and how what brought you to Canada. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean, you know, my parents were 27 and 30 when the Iranian revolution happened in 1979. We left the country May 4th, 1979. I was four years old, my sister was eight, and we moved to Canada. Now, my mom um at that young age was already protesting in the streets against the revolution. My mother and father were very much against what was coming. Uh I grew up in a very secular household, a very progressive household and my mom was very aware and it was very obvious that the country was heading towards a theocracy and she had no desire to live under such a system of governance. So we left very early on. My n my mother never went back. Uh I went back to visit in 1999. This was during the time of Katami. was a little bit of opening up of the country and I went back there. I landed in Iran on my 25th birthday &gt;&gt; in 1999 and uh &gt;&gt; I was there about a month and a half and it was really wild. It was you know nothing like I had ever experienced in my life. You really felt the weight of for someone who grew up in the west the weight of fascism you know uh and during that time was not like today. It was very different, you know, like men would walk around in the streets, tell you to cover your hair. I wasn't able to ride a bike. I couldn't go swimming in the sea. You know, a lot of that has changed right now. The the Iran you see today is not the Iran of 1999. But when I was there, things were very different and it left a really bad bad taste in my mouth, you know. &gt;&gt; Um, as someone who was 25 and was like, I want to go back home, see what it's like. &gt;&gt; Um, if I went back today, I'm sure I wouldn't have that experience, but I'm a bit too paranoid to &gt;&gt; try and go back right now. &gt;&gt; Um, and what are your friends and family there telling you? what are they saying is what what are they reporting from the ground? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean uh it depends on which friend I'm speak to. So uh some of my friends who are very wealthy are not in Tehran anymore. They have actually you know they have dual passports so they've left the country. Um others have stayed but they have villas so they are you know north of Tehran and just waiting this out basically. But my uncle who was in Esvahan, I haven't been able to have contact with him. I'm very worried um for him and his family, my cousins. Um and so it's a really a mixed bag and I think it's a good reflection of what's happening inside the country. You know, one of the images that has really stayed with me today um was of uh a virtuoso in our country who plays guitar. It's a sort of guitar like instrument. He went in front of the Damma Vand power plant. This is one of Iran's largest power plants. And he's been sitting there for the past two days playing his instrument and saying he refuses to leave. Now, if you watched Western media today, they would tell you that this guy was forced to be there, that he's uh, you know, human shield or whatever the hell they were saying. But a lot of Iranians out of their own will and valition have gone and formed human chains around their civilian infrastructures. People don't really understand the mindset of the Iranian people right now. Um they are not someone to be [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] with honestly. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, um, and and you mentioned that, uh, Isvahan, and that is the center of, uh, the Jewish center, right, of Iran. And there was, of course, a synagogue there that was destroyed. And for some reason, all these people who talk about Jewish safety, all these Israel defenders who accused people like you of being an anti-semite, people like me of being a self-loathing Jew, I haven't heard them lament this bombing. &gt;&gt; Not a word. Not a word even in u western media. You know, normally this would be made a huge thing out of and rightly so, but the fact that, you know, the leader of uh Iran's Jewish community went outside uh this this structure that was bombed, the uh I believe it's called the Rafi uh Yenni or Nia Rafina synagogue, which is 80 years old. Um and stood there and said, you know, this is a a stain on our community. um and you know right in the middle of our celebrations and he was holding uh a Torah that was totally torn to shreds and he also said that the scrolls that they use in that Sony are underneath the rubble. Um what people don't understand about Iran's Jewish community is that they see themselves as Iranians not as you know something outside the polity of the country. They are embedded and are a part of the fabric of that country and have been for thousands of years. &gt;&gt; Right. Yeah. Which obviously people don't want to say that because that belies the claim that Israel is needed to keep Jews safe and all the people in these areas hated the Jews and made them leave. And obviously people can look at some really interesting historioggraphy slash the just the memoir of um Avi Avi Schllay who writes a fascinating account of this where uh we've mentioned this on the show before but Zionist basically bombed areas in um oh you getting the book. &gt;&gt; There you go. Three worlds. There it is. And uh Zionist bombed uh areas in in Baghdad to scare the Jews into leaving. think they also did this in Egypt. Um, but we actually have a bunch of the things that you mentioned and and really major thanks to Brad and Nate because this show is uh is pretty dynamic obviously because a lot of the stuff is breaking news. Um, but this thing that we're about to show you is I I believe Brad uh here I'm going to bring you on to the show because you and Samira are close friends anyway as of like half an hour ago. Um, &gt;&gt; what' you say? &gt;&gt; I said BB. A good a good BB. &gt;&gt; A good one. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; All right. &gt;&gt; It's a BB we hate. Not this BB. &gt;&gt; Oh, is that a sticker? &gt;&gt; No, it's a It has no sticky. It's just &gt;&gt; a photo. &gt;&gt; It's a photo. &gt;&gt; You have many cool things behind you. &gt;&gt; Yeah. We're going to have to get a tour shortly. Um, so Brad, what do we got? Do we have the the musicians reference or do you want to see the &gt;&gt; What are our options? Sorry. Uh we have the uh latest um well if do you if you want to see what um uh Samira was just referencing regarding the musician. &gt;&gt; Oh yeah, let's do that. And then we have Susan's tweet. Is that what else we have? I just want to know the options. Okay. &gt;&gt; So here is and then we can share. &gt;&gt; Okay. This morning Trump I'm gonna read the tweet. Code Pink tweeted this morning Trump threatened to destroy a whole civilization in Iran but Iranians aren't afraid. Across the country, women, men, and children are occupying bridges and power plants to protect them from US attacks. Okay, let's take a look. And this includes the musician who you just referred to. &gt;&gt; Sorry, Katie. I don't want us to get copyright struck. &gt;&gt; Oh, yeah. Very smart. &gt;&gt; Okay. Yeah, that's really incredible, though. Iranians occupy bridges and power plants in the face of Trump's genocidal threats. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And he is in front of a power plant, it looks like. &gt;&gt; Yeah. That's the Damovand power plant, one of uh Iran's largest power plants. &gt;&gt; So the top image is the white bridge. Then you have De uh Desul Bridge. And then &gt;&gt; Desul Bridge. This is this is a bridge that's 2500 years old. It is the world's oldest uh bridge. &gt;&gt; Wow. Wow. Wow. That's incredible. &gt;&gt; Yeah. But if you watched Western media, you'd think that these people were all forced to be there and, you know, there's uh children there that, you know, human shields, etc. I mean, it it's just absurd. Um the the level of dehumanization and the and the sad, pathetic way they're trying to manufacture consent for waging this war on a on a daily basis. And speaking of which, I know that right now it it it's not necessarily the most current, but Katie, we have uh A2, that video clip. Um I don't know if you'd like to play that. &gt;&gt; Oh, yes. Is this uh the one of Israel, Israeli media? &gt;&gt; Uh &gt;&gt; no. Which one is this? &gt;&gt; Uh no, this is Trump saying something crazy. &gt;&gt; Oh, okay. Yeah, let's uh &gt;&gt; just let's just listen to him say this. Iranian people when they don't hear bombs go off, they're upset. They want to hear bombs because they want to be free. And the only reason they're not out now protesting, you know that, is because they were informed that if they protest, like the wrestler and his friends, if they protest, they will be shot immediately. And that's an edict that's in writing. &gt;&gt; So I don't want &gt;&gt; that. That was Monday at the White House. Yeah. &gt;&gt; And Samira, I I just had a question. Like number one, I don't I can't recall the specifics off the top of my head, but I believe at some point recently, it had come out that the US actually supplied the uh weapons. &gt;&gt; Oh, he bragged about that. &gt;&gt; Yes. He said he said that he um a after the the January 8th and 9th protest, they supplied the Kurds with arms which were supposed to go to protesters and he was complaining that the Kurds kept the guns. They didn't uh pass them out. I mean, it's just ridiculous. &gt;&gt; And then this this what he's saying here about they they want the bombs to drop. Like if I stop bombing, they will say, "Please come back and keep bombing." I don't know if you can speak to this, but I'm just in my head. What did did he find like one Israeli or something to provide that quote and he's painting it as the whole of Iran? Look, unfortunately, I don't know who is advising President Trump, but there are people uh and I rail against them on a daily basis. There are people in our community who want this war, who have been pushing for this war um and who honestly do believe that this is this will help the country. There's no doubt about that. there those people exist in our community and they also exist not just in the diaspora they're also inside the country and and the and and you know it's not just that they feel this way on their own there has been an immense amount of propaganda from these satellite channels from IDF and Persian Israel and Persian who for more than a decade have been promulgating this type of rhetoric at Iranians be meaning we're the only country that cares about you you know uh we are here to help you, etc. And look, for people who do want to see change, I think they're grasping at this at this rhetoric coming at them. Yes, it's juvenile. Yes. Yes. It's a simple way of thinking, but they exist. They they really do exist. You know, there's no denying that. the video the but the video that we just watched as you very correctly pointed out uh shows to me if you were an American and only listening to what the president or whomever was saying that's the picture you would paint and now you're showing us video here of countless Iranians that clearly do not feel like yes please come bomb us that you know &gt;&gt; of course I mean Iran is a country of 90 million people anybody who could sit here and tell you Iranians think this or think that is full of [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] I mean, even if they have, you know, what some say 20% or 25% of the people support them, that's still like 30 million people. That's a lot of people, you know, and and they are people that are willing to stand up and say, you know, even even the people, this is important to point out, Brad and Katie, that there are people who even don't like this system of governance who are now standing and saying, "Not on my land. You're not going to do this to us." You know, not not in my name are you going to do this, &gt;&gt; right? Like I don't like the system of government, but do I want &gt;&gt; somebody to bomb 180 school children or something? Like of course not, &gt;&gt; right? Yeah, it is a great way to uh build unity and uh around a government that you claim that you want to regime change and and that they do want to regime change, of course. But um so so just so people in case anyone missed the framing of that clip um what what what he said Trump was the Iranian people when they don't hear bombs go up they're upset they want to hear bombs because they want to be free I guess freed from their life like literally freed from being alive right &gt;&gt; the ultimate freedom &gt;&gt; yes exactly well you you heard about when um Matt Schlap this guy who's been accused of sexual assault by multiple young men he's involved in CPAC you know conservative um pack uh he said that when people pointed out that lamented that girls and women had been killed, especially girls at that time with the burka. &gt;&gt; Yeah. He said, "Well, you know, it's hypocritical to talk about women and girls because these are girls and women who are forced to wear burkas and werely living in a barbaric society and um have limited career choices. I mean, I can't even listen, Iran is one of the top has one of the top STEM graduates for women in the world. The only woman to ever win the Fields Medal, which is like the Nobel of math, is an Iranian woman, Mariam Zahani. And the United States of Israel bombed that exact university yesterday that she graduated from. &gt;&gt; The MIT of Iran, right? &gt;&gt; Exactly. &gt;&gt; Absolutely despicable. So the audac the audacity to make such ludicrous statements it's it's just [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] We're living in like &gt;&gt; the ultimate gaslight right now. &gt;&gt; Yeah. It's every accusation is a confession. Everything is an inversion. I want to show another uh some some &gt;&gt; So Katie, do you I I'll I'll excuse myself, but we have the other two tweets. You can uh let me know when you want to show them. &gt;&gt; Uh which ones are those? I wanted to actually &gt;&gt; that would be Susan and uh Trito. &gt;&gt; Okay. So yeah, and then we'll go back to the um actually no, let's do these first and then do you have do you have the the BBC thing that up or is that not prepped yet because of the way things are going? No worries. &gt;&gt; BBC thing. &gt;&gt; Uh sorry, that would be um uh a AO3 AO32 AO33 &gt;&gt; I believe. So I will just uh get off screen and if you could give me like 30 seconds. &gt;&gt; Sure. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um yeah, I mean it it is fascinating and uh Nate also uh and Brad, we have that clip that we should show of that of that woman uh making an interesting statement on the Trigger Nomatry podcast. Uh these people are are very racist Zionists and the fact that she kind of shocks even them is uh is is quite uh telling. But you know it is fascinating that as you were just referring to Samira people regardless of their politics I mean it's fascinating but it's also human like it's so obvious right like it why would anyone want to be bombed regardless of their thoughts on on the government. anybody who even, you know, isn't a halfwit and who who understands any type of social movement knew that any outside foreign intervention um into Iran would have a rallying around the flag effect. Anybody would have understood that. But they don't care. They don't care about this stuff. This this administration is wholly delusional and lives in a fantasy world, you know. Uh it's so dangerous. And that's why I was look when you when you brought when you just mentioned that you know they're sort of calling this down. I was elated because I actually did think that they were going to go ahead and bomb these power plants because we've watched images of prochemical plants being bombed, oil depots, oil refineries creating these apocalyptic scenes in Iran. And so I really uh I'm you have no idea right now what's happening in the pit of my stomach. I'm still uh high from that news. Uh it's it's wild. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, I think it's I I reach out to my friends who have family and friends in Iran. I try to do that every couple of days um just because, you know, it's something that obviously I mean, you know, that that picture of that boy who was 8 years old that went kind of viral who was waving goodbye to his family, that was just so heartbreaking. And then there are videos of him, but you know, Iranians are so Iranians, Palestinians, uh, all of the the the our adversaries, right? They're just so dehumanized. Although, you know, more and more people who are watching all it's it's impossible to fall for it unless you have &gt;&gt; Well, even that clip that Bradley just played today during that, you know, when the band was playing and I think it was the Easter event or whatever, he they, you know, he justified bombing the country, but he turned around and said, "They're animals. Oh yeah. &gt;&gt; Right. So it's that people don't seem to understand that everything we allowed in Gaza is coming back. Everything from the dehumanization to the bombing of universities to the bombing of infrastructure. We allowed that in Gaza. And now we're seeing it play out in Lebanon, right? &gt;&gt; In Iran. &gt;&gt; I mean, it's just disgusting. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it really is disgusting. So, speaking of the of myths and propaganda, um let's take a look at at something that happened at the BBC. So, I wish it was only Trump who was claiming that Iranians wanted to be bombed. But on Monday, the BBC uh posted an article quoting an anonymized Iranian they supposedly talked to. Uh so, let's see the first uh photo. Brad. Okay. Um I'm just going to read some of the highlighted sections. Um Radine also in his 20s and living in Tran said about them hitting energy infrastructure using an atomic bomb or leveling Iran. My honest reaction is that I'm okay with all of those. Uh Redeem also in his 20s uh and living in Thran said, "If attacking the targets in the country brings down the Islamic Republic, I'm fine with that." Um and then uh here's an update. Uh this article originally included a longer quote from Radine in which he spoke about the attacks on Iranian uh energy uh so um infrastructure and referred to the levels of destruction which he suggested would be personally acceptable to him to bring down the Islamic Republic. Redee's comments were made directly to the BBC and were initially included in full to illustrate the strength of feeling of some of those who are opposed to the country's leadership. However, after further review, this part of the quote was removed from the article due to concerns over the way in which the speaker expressed his views and the extent to which they reflected wider Iranian viewpoints. So, what happens is the um the corrections happened the day after it was originally written. Um so, that was kind of an insane story. Um the edits were and uh what does that mean? the way he expressed his views like he didn't actually say this. I I don't what does that even what does that mean that sentence the way he expressed himself did he do it through Morse code or &gt;&gt; and you know if if they say there's such wide you know internet blackout how is the BBC talking to all of these people uh &gt;&gt; con yeah um so it's it's really quite uh striking and the grayzone actually wrote an article about this Um, let's take a look at this. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; Senior BBC Iran reporter exposed as opposition activist. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; And let's take a look at the um I believe we have a a tweet next. &gt;&gt; Uh we have the Wyatt Reed unless you wanted to look further into the &gt;&gt; Yeah, the Wyatt read. Yeah, the W. Yeah. Okie dokie. &gt;&gt; Thank you. Okay, so um Wyatt Reed tweets wondering why media coverage of Iran is so one-sided. Here's BBC Persia senior reporter admitting she only speaks with Iranians who are quote against the current establishment and quote they communicate via Starlink, hundreds of which were smuggled into Iran by a CIA cutout called NED, National Endowment for Democracy. Uh, how some Iranians reacted to US jet downing? And this is Gonch Hab Bizayad. I've been asking some of my contacts uh inside Iran what they think about the US jet downing. All those I talked to are against the current establishment. Um, and then she says, "It's still very difficult to contact people inside Iran because of the ongoing internet blackout, but some have managed to connect using satellite." Yeah. &gt;&gt; I reckon. &gt;&gt; Says reckon. &gt;&gt; Oh, I reckon get in the water. &gt;&gt; Yeah. This is uh this is this is I mean this media bias is quite fascinating and we see it all the time. I mean all the people who go on CNN are these cheerleaders. All the people who h Pierce Morgan has on. Has Pierce Morgan had you on? He should. &gt;&gt; No. No. &gt;&gt; Pierce have Samira on. I'll recommend you. You should go on. I doubt it. I'd love to be in conversation with some of those women uh Pierce Morgan has as representatives of Iran. I mean uh you know these women. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, we actually have one of one of our faves. Um uh sorry guys, this is this is a less uh uh what's the word? Tight a looser uh show than usual because we are uh reacting to so many uh breaking news things. Um, so, uh, let's take a look at Elica. Um, oh god, Elica Leon, who is the daughter of Iran. That's how she describes herself. Daughter of Iran, attorney, speaker, author to be. Um, &gt;&gt; attorney speaker, author, activist. &gt;&gt; I know. Uh, uh, yes, I I Brad, that's totally fine. Uh, this is her appearing on the trigger trigonometry podcast. Well, but but but that's you you laugh. That is how they think. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I know that's so funny &gt;&gt; because when they look at the Middle East, they don't know that it wasn't all Muslim before. &gt;&gt; Yeah. No, they don't understand that. &gt;&gt; So, they don't understand that Muslims colonized all of that. &gt;&gt; We were so we were colonized by Islamism, right? &gt;&gt; So, why can't we say that this war is fighting a colonial empire? &gt;&gt; Yeah. And they've got That's literally what it is. Jewish. He's actually Jewish. &gt;&gt; Is he? &gt;&gt; No, but we should stop that rumor. &gt;&gt; No, but we can stop that rumor. &gt;&gt; That's why I say we should say he's &gt;&gt; I think he might have a few or why. I think he might have a few issues. I think he is make ourselves white. I think we could make an argument for &gt;&gt; And it's also there's there's the &gt;&gt; America is the evil empire. As a result of them being the evil empire, everybody else is oppressed. Nothing like just like nothing about it ever makes sense. You talk about the you talk about Hezbollah, you talk about the Houthis, you talk about the regime, you're like, "Yeah, they're fighting oppression, but they are committing more oppression than anybody else." &gt;&gt; Yeah, but they're they're doing it for &gt;&gt; They're doing oppression in their own lands for good. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Okay. Yeah. Cuz to suppress the MSAD agents &gt;&gt; cuz they're brown. &gt;&gt; And oppressed by evil Israel. It's good we're agreeing finally. &gt;&gt; Yeah, finally. &gt;&gt; All of the all of the debate I think the logic is airtight. It's airtight logic. They win. We just I think we have to go forward as leftists because we clearly see that that is the superior world for you. Fine. I'm gay and trans. We've done it. &gt;&gt; I don't think we'd be accepted. &gt;&gt; What do you mean? I selfidentify as a woman. &gt;&gt; You selfidentify? &gt;&gt; Yes. I think it's a good note to ending. What's the one thing we're not talking about that we should be? Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. Um, &gt;&gt; ideological subversion. &gt;&gt; Like they seem to be saying some really ugly things, but like if you're saying it tongue and cheek, then it's okay. &gt;&gt; She's she's just she's the captain of word salad. She's such a jargonist. And it really she is the emblem of the rise of the confident dumb. &gt;&gt; Um, nothing this woman says, honestly, nothing she says makes any sense. But like you just said, if you say it a certain way, like confidently, &gt;&gt; that's enough for people, you know, if you break down what is actually coming out of her mouth, nothing, none of it makes sense. And it's so historically inaccurate also, but she's dealing with people most of the time that don't know better than her. &gt;&gt; You're muted. &gt;&gt; Sorry about that. Yeah. Yeah. And of course she she appears on Pierce Morgan all the time. So we are going to get you on Pierce Morgan. Uh &gt;&gt; I'd love to debate Elica Labon which is that's not her last name. That is a fake last name. &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; Her last name is Moah Z. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I didn't think Labon was &gt;&gt; that is her last name. Um and she tries to hide her last name. She pretends that her family fled the country. However, her father for years was a professor at one of the most staunchly right-wing and uh like conservative universities in Iran. He wrote oped pieces about why Iran should have nuclear capabilities in the New York Times. Her father's name is Piruse Moahade. I've done a deep dive on Elica. She is nothing but an ambulance chaser, graduate of Pepperdine University. She is a dimwit at best. &gt;&gt; Right. Yeah. And you really uh get a lot of uh of hate from people like her, from monarchist. Can you just you you get it from both directions. I mean, you get it from Well, it's not both directions. They're very adjacent. So, you get it from monarchists and you get it from uh Zionists. And a lot of these monarchists are Zionists. So, talk about some of the hate that you've encountered for speaking out. &gt;&gt; You know, I get uh my address is doxed online. I've had people send me death threats, rape threats. For some reason, all of it is really sexual and genderbased, you know, um these are the freedom fighters. These are the people who want to save women, &gt;&gt; Um and for some reason, all they do is attack women, mostly women of color, you know. Um and so, yeah, that's, you know, it it's almost &gt;&gt; what pisses me off as a journalist is that we're just supposed to take this as if it's part of the job, you know, right? Um, and you know, I I I've been at this for a very long time, so I mainly just brush it off and laugh because some of it is such a parody of itself. It's such a cliche. Like, they will accuse you of taking money from the IRGC, &gt;&gt; Which is one of their biggest &gt;&gt; definitely going to be &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, one of their biggest most ridiculous things. And my response always, they always ask, "How much are you getting paid?" And I always say, "Not enough." &gt;&gt; Not enough. Um, and so it it's just stupidity, you know, it's a way of shutting someone up and it just reminds me that my voice has an impact. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Right. Exactly. Or I love when people write like you're an irrelevant joke or something on Twitter. I'm like, well then why are you responding to what I'm writing &gt;&gt; and yet here you are. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Um, wanted to show you let's see the Susan Abuhawa tweet that you referred to. I think that's uh great and speaks to a lot of of the points that you're making about Iran not wanting to be effed with. So uh Susan Abuhawa uh quote tweeted Trump's insane tweet and said uh as you referred to earlier on the show, a megalomaniac pedophile with a fifth grade reading comprehension surrounded by a rapist drunk and traders working to further a Jewish supremacist wet dream want to wipe out a 12,000-year-old civilization. The entire world order is wrong. This is the logical consequence of a system that allows the world's greatest parasites to commit a genocide for the world to witness in high definition without moving a finger. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's a Christian Zionist wet dream, too. It's a joint wet dream. And &gt;&gt; that's the other thing. Uh, you know, sorry to interrupt you, but people people don't talk about the evangelical elephant in the room enough. And it has a lot to do not just with, you know, people like Franklin Graham who yesterday stood in the, you know, White House during the Easter ceremony and said, and I quote, uh, Iranians want to kill all the Jews. Thank you, God, for anointing Trump. I'm not sure if you saw this, then he invoked Esther and Pum and all this other stuff. &gt;&gt; Um, again, you know, on a daily basis, we're being dehumanized and, you know, consent is being manufactured for this war. But it's also that there is a huge u community of evangelicals, missionaries, some guy named Dawkins, Ronnie Dawkins or something &gt;&gt; who are are &gt;&gt; just [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] to get into Iran, right, and do their missionary work. And really, there are there there's also a lot of Iranians who are basically substituting one form of theocracy for another. And it's wild. It's wild. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And the projection is insane because um they you know Marco Rubio talks about how they're theocrats and the mullers, the radical clerics. Meanwhile, you have like Pete Hexith uh with his crusades tattoos. You have people calling the military to complain that high up commanders are telling them that Trump was anointed by Jesus. You have people who are talking about how this is going to be great for Armageddon. Um it is Yeah, it's extremely extremely scary. &gt;&gt; Yeah. All the messianics have come to the front and they're like, "Let's go." I mean, they they're dragging us into Armageddon because everyone is waiting for somebody to come back from somewhere, &gt;&gt; right? Yeah, it is. It is very scary. And of course, they're use it's it's amazing because they're so um obviously using uh each other because uh one second, I'm just writing some of our next guests. Okay. They're so obviously using each other because the Christians want the Jews to quote unquote go back. I put that in big quotes, air quotes, uh to uh Israel where they will be most of most of us will burn for eternal &gt;&gt; burn in hell if you don't burn. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. &gt;&gt; And then the uh the Jewish the religious Jews or the secular Jews, they think that's insane. That's not going to happen. Right. So like both sides are are happy to work with each other because they don't take each other's theology or ideology that seriously they just what they do think is that you know um uh furthering bloodshed uh is is good. that's that's what they have in common and and it they dehumanize you know Palestinians and I Iranian people and also uh really distort I would say I mean this is a whole other question but I don't really think if they ask themselves what would Jesus do uh this is what would happen. Yeah. And uh I mean I I have my is it here? I have my Bible here and I'm constantly I have my Bible here and I'm constantly going to it because there are so many references to what is happening right now and the messianics are constantly bringing up Jeremiah and this there's a whole town there's an area in Iran called Ilam and they think that this is there's an area called Susa Shush and all the Jewish messianics are referring to this area and saying you know this is the area that we need to bomb and that is going to bring the m me m me m me m me m me m me m me m me m me m me msiach back &gt;&gt; like it's it there's a lot of [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] going on, you know, and this is something that people just overlook this this biblical biblical stuff and and they shouldn't because these people are serious. They want to drag us into World War II and just do away with everything so that whoever they're rooting for can come back and save them. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's really disgusting. Um well uh anything else that you want to to to mention? And we have to have you on again when there isn't all this breaking news. Uh do you want to see what the By the way that Iranian Iran's plan is that they &gt;&gt; Yes, I do. &gt;&gt; Treat Parsy uh tweeted this out. Um, &gt;&gt; the most important sentence in Trump's ceasefire post is the ensuing negotiations will be based on the Iranian 10-point proposal and not the 15 points. These are the key aspects. Permanent end to hostilities, a lasting peace agreement rather than a temporary ceasefire. Security guarantees. Oh, lifting sanctions. That's amazing. That would be amazing. That would be, you know, this this would be wild if it happens. And I just I I just don't think Israel will allow this. I I just don't I just don't think Israel will allow it. That's what scares me the most, you know. Um because Israel just continues bombing. I mean, they as you put they bombed a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] synagogue today, &gt;&gt; you know, and they even admitted to it. They admitted to it and said, "Sorry, collateral damage." &gt;&gt; So, this this will continue on Israel's side. Unfortunately, let's get through the rest of it and then we'll uh so lifting sanctions which got you teareyed understandably. You want to keep going? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Straight of Hormuz reopening, Iran would reopen the vital energy route but charge a 2 million fee per vessel. Uh regional security end to Israeli strikes in Lebanon. See, we're thinking about others all the time. Reconstruction funding revenue from the straight to be used for rebuilding infrastructure rather than direct reparations. Yeah, somebody's got to pay for this [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] that they did. &gt;&gt; Like, somebody has to pay there, you know. Um, this is amazing if it happens, you know. &gt;&gt; I'll bring on the Bible I just put away. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Well, Samira, it it seems to me too looking at this, one of the things that the US and Israel's illegal attack on Iran has accomplished is seems to me fundamentally shifting the world structure here that after this either Iran is going to be charging fees to access the straight of Hormuz or they're going to be getting direct reparations for reconstruction. Look, I think those two things I think the biggest thing is that Iran has shown that it's not to be messed with. That you can bomb whatever infrastructure you like, but at the end of the day, we are not to be [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] with. And it doesn't matter &gt;&gt; that the US the the US that the US military is not the uh unbeatable, undefeable, you know, uh that in a large degree, at least in the age of Trump, is a paper tiger of sorts. Yeah, and I'm hoping, you know, that people on the ground who were uh trying to affect change in the country um can be left alone to do so. Iran is building its civil society and it is making change on its own time and with its own way and just leave us alone. &gt;&gt; Leave us alone. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's incredible. Um we we have um a statement from the Iranian government. It's very long though. Um, but I will I'll read it with our next guest. Um, uh, unless you want to maybe we can you guys can overlap for a little bit because I I think it would be cool to have your um, feedback as well. Um, should Norman uh, give me a thumbs up. How about I I would love to have you on with Samira um, together and we look at the response from the Iranian government. Hold on. Oh, hello. &gt;&gt; Okay, now I see you. &gt;&gt; Okay, so this is uh Samira Moyadine and Norman Finkelstein, two uh brilliant uh minds. And I thought it would be a great idea as of like 30 seconds ago when I got the tweet from someone to have you both on while we read a statement from the Iranian government because Norman, we're kind of piecing this together because uh in real time because obviously Trump had tweeted his change of plans. you know, he was going to do this uh major regime change bombing blitz and then he decided to do a two-week uh ceasefire. So, let's I thought we could read this is an official statement from the Iranian government. It's long, but we can read parts of it that that stand out. Okay. So, let's see. Statement by Iran Supreme National Security Council on the twoe ceasefire and negotiation conditions part one. Uh the enemy has suffered an undeniable historic and crushing defeat in its cowardly illegal and criminal war against the Iranian nation. Thanks to the pure and innocent blood of the martyed leader leader of the Islamic Revolution, his highness Ayatollah Seyed Iman Kami. May God bless him and grant him peace. The measures of the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution and Supreme Commander of the armed forces, his His Highness Ayatollah Sayed Mush Mushaba Kamei. May God protect his son. &gt;&gt; His son, right? Yeah. Um the struggle and bravery of the warriors of Islam on the fronts and especially the historic lasting and epic presence of you, the dear nation on the scene from the very first days of the war. Iran achieved a great victory and forced the criminal America to accept its 10-point plan in which the United States is committed in principle to guaranteeing non-aggression, continuing Iranian control over the straight of Hormuz, accepting enrichment, lifting all the all primary and secondary sanctions. That really is incredible. terminating all resolutions of the Security Council and the Board of Governors, paying Iran compensation, withdrawing American combat forces from the region, and stopping the war on all fronts, including against the heroic Lebanese Islamic resistance. We congratulate all the people of Iran on this victory and emphasize that until the details of this victory are finalized, there is still a need for the perseverance and prudence on the part of the authorities and for maintaining the unity and solidarity of the Iranian people. Islamic Iran together with the brave resistance fighters in Lebanon, Iraq, Yemen, and occupied Palestine has dealt blows to the enemy in the past 40 days that the historical memory of the world will never forget. Iran and the axis of resistance as representatives of honor and humanity against the most savage enemies of humanity have taught them an unforgettable lesson after historic battle and have crushed their forces, facilities, infrastructures, and all their political, economic, technological, and military capital to such an extent that the enemy has now fallen into decay and despair and sees no other way than surrendering to the will of the great Iranian nation and the noble axis of resistance before it. Woo! Wow, this is uh kind of incredible. And I kind of I almost hope uh that Trump doesn't doesn't see this because it's so humiliating. &gt;&gt; I think he'll lose his he'll lose his [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] mind if he reads this. &gt;&gt; Uh then they also &gt;&gt; he doesn't read. So &gt;&gt; yeah, exactly. Yeah. They um they thought Iran's missile um uh let's see they thought Iran's missile and drone fire would quick quickly die down and they did not believe that Iran could give them such a powerful response beyond its borders and across the entire region. The evil global Zionism has convinced the ignorant American president that this war would finish Iran off and that by eliminating this last bastion of humanity, they could now easily commit any crime against anyone they wanted. They dreamed of dividing dear Iran, plundering its oil and wealth, and ultimately leaving the Iranians in the midst of chaos, instability, and insecurity for many years to come. Um, and we also have a statement. Um, Nate, uh, did you send this to Brad? Because if you don't send it to Brad, I can't it won't get on the screen. Uh but uh I also has a statement on behalf of the Supreme National Security Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Um and this is a much shorter one. Uh so &gt;&gt; this is the foreign minister. &gt;&gt; Yes. Yeah. I can also share it, Brad, if it's um and Norman, this is such a great um we have a great prompt for our discussion about Israel uh tricking America or American Israel having the same interest. So, we can have a debate between you and the Security Council. Uh not the Security Council, the uh what is Supreme Council, but they won't be here. But I can play their part. I can just read their what they're saying. It' be a very dynamic debate. Um, okay. Let's see. All right. Here we go. Thank you so much for that. Okay. On behalf of the Islamic Republic of Iran, I express gratitude that this is their foreign minister of foreign affairs. Okay. On behalf of the Islamic Republic of Iran, I express gratitude and appreciation for my dear brothers he Prime Minister of Pakistan Sharif and he Field Marshall Mour for their tireless efforts to end the war in the region in response to the brotherly request of PM Prime Minister Sharif in his tweet and considering the request by the US for negotiations based on its 15point proposal as well as announcement by pus about acceptance of the general a framework of Iran's 10point proposal as a basis for negotiations. I hereby declare on behalf of Iran's Supreme National Security Council. If attacks against Iran are halted, our powerful armed forces will cease their defensive operations for a period of two weeks. Safe passage for a period of two weeks. Safe passage through the straight of Hormuz will be possible via coordination with Iran's armed forces and with due consideration of technical limitations. slightly different tone coming from the foreign minister versus the other statement. But um uh Samira, before you um you leave, just want to ask you your response to that. And um then Norman, of course, if you want to respond to that and then we'll be talking about many things in more detail, but you know, I I just keep thinking that Israel won't allow this. I mean, I I don't think that Israel will stop bombing Iran. Um that's that's my worry. um you know they have shown that they're just riding through the air all across the skies and they're just they just keep bombing um dozens and dozens of sites every single night. Um my friends like who I've spoken with just they just freak out every night at around 3 between 3 and 4 in the morning is when all of these bombs are going off and I just don't see Israel allowing for this to take place. Okay. Well, last thing I'm going to show is a video actually of Israeli media that you sent to me, Samira. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Uh, this is this is them talking about the count the countdown clock. &gt;&gt; I wonder how they're feeling. &gt;&gt; Oh, we don't have Crap. Sorry. I thought we had it. &gt;&gt; No, it's not subtitled. Uh they're quite giddy. &gt;&gt; So I wonder what they're going to do with that clock now. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Very excited. Um &gt;&gt; it just goes to show you that I mean Israeli media right now is so genocidal anyways. Specifically channel 13 and 14. But &gt;&gt; yeah, &gt;&gt; I think that they were really hoping that this would happen, &gt;&gt; right? They definitely were excited about it. &gt;&gt; The power plants, everything would be gone. So &gt;&gt; yeah. Well, Samira, thank you so much. Please do come back on the show. We'll have more to talk about. And uh everyone subscribe to Samira's channel. It's great. &gt;&gt; Um and again, CBC, not BBC. Don't subscribe to CBC though. &gt;&gt; No, no, no. Yeah, definitely subscribe to the to On the Line Media. &gt;&gt; Have enough subscriptions. &gt;&gt; Have a great rest of show. &gt;&gt; Thanks. Thanks for joining. All right, guys. If you haven't already, please like the stream. Uh like the stream, give it a thumbs up, subscribe, and uh become Patreon supporters. And without any further ado, I think uh this man needs no introduction. Norman Finkelstein, author of several books, including the Holocaust Industry and including uh Knowing Too Much, which I uh read parts of to yesterday and today, which is a fascinating book. um Gaza inquest into martyrdom and a uh very brave uh person, professor and outspoken critic of Israel, but also not just Israel. So, welcome back to the show, Norman. It's been a while. &gt;&gt; Thank you for having me, Katie. &gt;&gt; Of course. And as everyone knows, I had you on this show precisely because you are a military expert and you love talking without knowing what you're talking about. Now that is the disclaimer made by Norman which is that he's not a military expert. He doesn't like to talk just based on I don't know what um pontificating but you do have a lot of things to say that are extremely relevant. starting with I mean you you are someone who who spent time with Hezbollah also with um Hamas and you are someone who also uh has a very strong critique of I would say the kind of America first analysis of what is happening and and the wag the dog framing and in fact Samira just said you know she didn't think that Israel will let uh Trump do xyz and you have a in in your book um knowing too much you talk about the lobby thesis by Walt Mirshimer and I know you're very you are good friends with with Mirshimer so I I I guess we could just start with first um let's get your reactions in general to what we just saw and then we can talk about those other issues &gt;&gt; well let me begin with some disclaimers not only do I not command any knowledge of military matter matters and I proudly say so. Um I can't say spent extensive time with Hezbollah or with Hamas. I did make one trip to one or two trips to Lebanon where I did tour the south um with the tour leaders, if you can call it that term. The tour leaders were heads of fighters and I believe either on that trip or a second trip, my mind is not clear in that. I did meet with the current lead the current leader of Hezbollah Naiamasum and we had a cordial if slightly academic conversation because I had read his book and I was surprised. I think it's something like uh Hezbollah from within. I don't remember the title now. I have it on my shelf, but I'm cool. But I noted that he cited sources like Human Rights Watch, which for me was rather surprising given he was at that point he was the second in command of Hezbollah. Uh the leader being Sai Nisella. And so we had a cordial, but I think for him it was a disappointing conversation because Hezbollah people were very practical. And I remember that when Professor Chsky met with Sai Nisala and one of the things that struck me as &gt;&gt; I thought you said Sai. I thought you said Sai like you were calling him like Seymour Hersh's nickname Sai. Okay. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Uh Cha, Professor Chsky observed afterwards that Nala Burley said a word, he was just trying to suck out information. He was extremely serious guy and um so I think if the expectation was that I was going to yield grand insights, uh it was a disappointment. I was a rather dull witted academic in our conversation. They have the trip in the south. Yeah, it did leave an impression on me and since then obviously a lot has happened. I did not believe that the decapitation of the Hezba leadership will lead to a collapse of the movement. Uh the two things that I did believe and I still believe would happen was that um first of all NRAA had a vision. He was a was like other great military political leaders, someone like Maong. Uh he was a both a practical political practical political leader, a practical military leader, but he also had a vision. And that vision is not easily replaceable. He was hopefully not unique, but he was definitely a rare bird. Uh, and secondly, he had enough authority based on his years of conviction and commitment that he couldn't be bossed around easily by Iran. Now at many levels it's clear Hezbollah is dependent upon Iran but that dependency did not result in a complete subordination because commanded a lot of authority. So I thought in those two respects namely the um vision the follow's vision and also in his uh authority his political authority military authority and moral authority those were going to be two big losses for Hezbollah but I thought on the ground the actual fighting in the short term it wasn't going to be significantly diminished What might be significantly diminished, we really don't know, is how much of uh Hezbollah's arsenal was destroyed by Israel. And there have been different calculations about that. Uh and it seems the destruction of its arsenal was not at the magnitude that many believed after the Israeli attack. uh in the long term uh I believe Hezbollah is going to prevail uh in the south. It's funny when you listen to all the conversation now now I don't claim to be uh a a m a web maven but it does strike me as odd. I'm old but I'm not so old that I haven't seen one person one commentator now maybe you have so I have to be careful here who has mentioned that Israel already this is this is it's just everything old is new again in Israel launched you know there's all this talk now Israel is going to take over everything up to the Latani River. In 1978, Israel launched Operation Latani. It already did that. It already occupied Lebanon up to the Latani River. And in the course of that period from to 2000, Israel launched its devastating destruction of Lebanon, including for the first time bombing an Arab capital, namely Beirut. It killed between 15 and 20,000 Lebanese, overwhelmingly civilians, Palestinians. I said Lebanese, that's incorrect. Palestinians and Lebanese overwhelmingly civilians. And you know, up until the end of the first month in Gaza and maybe even a little longer than the first month, it may have been two months. The biggest bloodletting in that part of the world by Israel by Israel was uh the Lebanon war in AD2 and really everything Israel did in Gaza, it had already done in Lebanon, targeting ambulances, targeting hospitals, targeting schools that was already part of the Israeli repertoire in the Lebanon war. I would recommend to your readers uh listeners who are readers, two really excellent books for a journalistic account, a breathtaking journalistic account, an epic journalistic account. I would recommend Robert Fisk's Pity the Nation. It's really a stunning work of journalism and literature. He was a brilliant stylist. And the best factual account was Professor Chsky's monumental book Fateful Triangle. uh about I would say twothirds of it is devoted to chronicling the horrors that were uh inflicted on Lebanon. And during the Lebanon war is when the party of God was born. and they carried out a guerilla war that lasted from 83 82 83 to June 2000 when Israel was finally expelled from all of Lebanon. which is to say that I know Israel will not prevail in Lebanon I'm not saying the moral factor is always decisive. I don't believe that's true. At some level if you are disarmed or overwhelmingly uh overwhelmed by the other side's arsenal, it's very hard to prevail. I know that. However, the moral factor I do believe plays a decisive role. I won't say the decisive role, a decisive role. And the people of South Lebanon have so much so much venom inside them against what they call the Zionist entity. The number who were tortured in places like Hiam prison in South Lebanon. the number who lost families, homes, uh, and the number who are still devoted to and want very much the opportunity to revenge the deaths not only of family and friends, not only the destruction of villages, but also to vindicate the memory of Nasra, who was revered. by Hezbollah before his passing, his assassination. So I believe it's going to take a while. I won't live to see the end. But the israelis will be expelled from s from Lebanon again. And I believe that Netanyahu, he knows that, but he doesn't much care. All he cares about is the photo op of the Israelis conquering Lebanon up until the Latani. His long-term concerns are over. He's an older man now. So I I believe now it's just for him the photo op, but he's smart enough to know it's never going to happen that they can successfully repress the resistance in Lebanon. At some point they have to settle down to being occupiers. And settling down to being occupiers means being a sitting target for the resistance and the resistance won't uh the resistance will prevail but I think it'll take time. They will let the Israelis come all the way in and then let them settle in and then for the party of God, the fun begins of picking them off one by one until they're finally expelled a second time. But I won't be here for that event and neither for that matter will uh Netanyahu. It took time. It took from 83 to 2000. So that's a chunk of time, &gt;&gt; right? I mean it's uh you talk about the venom and it is a different venom I would say from the venom of uh for instance Israel's venom which is uh based on I would say like a a dehumanization as opposed to um &gt;&gt; it's the venom of justified &gt;&gt; justified vindication Right. &gt;&gt; If you'll allow me one moment. Yes. One second. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, I was just distinguishing um I mean, not that you needed to know that from Norman Finkelestein, but I wanted to make sure people watching understood that there's just justified venom and then there's genocidal mania. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And I will doing any both uh both sides in which you don't and weren't doing. I will acknowledge that at the level of ex at the level of um abstraction it's hard to make out the difference. It's the concrete fact. My parents till their deaths till their dying days they loathe they hated the Germans. Oh my god. &gt;&gt; And they wouldn't say Nazis, right? They would say the Germans. &gt;&gt; The Germans. You could not say anything. Well, of course, the pre-Nazi Germans, you know, my parents recognized the level of culture Germany had reached. &gt;&gt; Uh even my parents who loathed Poles, they were from Poland. Uh they will, my mother would acknowledge the best pianists were Polish. That's just a fact. Uh but a positive word that's not going to happen. That's why &gt;&gt; people know Norman's parents are survived um several camps. They were both in the Warsaw ghetto. Um so that's the context. That's why I was very relieved that I wrote the book with a a German author, a nation on trial, which was basically refuting the thesis that Germans were homicidal anti-semites from the distant annals of time to the present. And all Hitler did was give them the green light. &gt;&gt; The golden thesis. &gt;&gt; Yeah. the Gold Hogan thesis. So, I was, let me tell you, I was very glad that my parents had passed from the scene before that book came out because they would have agreed 100% with Gold Hagen, right? &gt;&gt; I know that. I know that. In any event on the question of revenge and as I said at a abstract level uh you could say well the Jews hate or I should say the Israelis hate the Arabs and the Arabs hate the Israelis and it's venomous on both sides and you can't distinguish between the two. Yeah, at some abstract level that sounds right, but not at the concrete level. Not not in my opinion at any rate. &gt;&gt; Um you just allow me. &gt;&gt; It's kind of like Nazis and um Jews. &gt;&gt; Yes, that's exactly what I was going to read now. So, you gave me the perfect segue. Uh there was a Soviet Jew, a writer named Ilia Erinburgg and at the end of the war when the Soviet Red Army is marching on Berlin, Aaronburgg wrote the following. He said, "All the trenches, graves, and ravines filled with corpses of the innocents are advancing on Berlin, along with the boots and shoes and babies slippers of those murdered and gassed at Maidonic. happens my parents were in Maidonic because that's where the Jews from the Warso ghetto were deported and that line always resonated for me. It was Arenburgg the moment of revenge. We are going to revenge the boots and shoes and babies slippers of those murdered and gazed and maidonic and that's the Hezbollah that's the Lebanese and I do not believe that they will be shaken from that conviction and commitment. They will revenge the murder and tortured of the people of South Lebanon. So they will prevail in the end in my opinion and uh so that's my I I met one Hamas leader Dr. Rantisi. He lived in they all knew they were going to get assassinated. They were very well shall I say blasze about it. I remember Edward say about Nasalla. He met Nusraalla when Nisral was still a young man in 1990 I s if my memory is right something around there. And he said there were two things that distinguished Nisallah from every other Arab leader he ever met. And obviously he had met them all. He said number one, and this is no joke. It may sound like a joke, but it's not a joke. It's actually a very insightful remark. He said Nella was always punctual. You make a meeting with him, he's going to be there on time. It's not the Arab leaders who think they're so important that you have to wait around for them for seven and eight hours. No, your time is precious. My time is precious. Both of our times are precious. I'm not better than you. You're not better than me. The meetings are 4:00. It's 4:00. And the second thing he said about Nisallah was he was the first Arab leader who was not surrounded by bodyguards with machine guns. None of the agit prop. He was there unar they were he was unarmed. He was office meeting and uh it was the same thing with Hamas. When I met Rantis Dr. RTC he was I believe he was an obstitrician but I'm not positive on that I hope I didn't make a mistake there um when I met Dr. rent you see. He lived in a ten what you would call in our language a tenement very simple no armed guards we just talked I wasn't I wasn't happy with the conversation I think it was at the beginning of the second inif father and I asked him his opinion of how things were going he was as I said the head of Hamas at the time he was assassinated died shortly thereafter. Um and he said to me as follows. He said when the second inif father began the ratio of killed was 8:1 Palestinians killed for every Israeli killed. He said now we've gotten the ratio down to about 2:1 or maybe it was 4:1. I can now remember. And I I felt like it didn't strike me as a political vision. It was just tit for tat, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. Uh I could be wrong. Obviously, the ratio does play a role. I'm not going to deny that. But I found it a rather narrow a narrow assessment of the situation. Otherwise, I don't recall meeting other Hamas people. I could be wrong. I don't remember. &gt;&gt; Um he apparently, by the way, is was a pediatrician. Uh Dr. &gt;&gt; Pediatrician and I said an obstitrician, right? They were all very accomplished. &gt;&gt; Yeah. There they were all you have you give credit where credit's due. If I can say Chuck Schumer is a smart guy, even though I find him a revoling personality, &gt;&gt; moral monster, &gt;&gt; a moral monster, uh we have to be equally uh not so much generous as objective. the the the about in our assessments the current uh you would say foreign minister I think that's a fair title uh is um Basam Naim of Hezbollah excuse me of Hamas Basum Naim and I know him pretty well by correspondence I don't believe I ever met him but we certainly carried on over the years a substantial correspondence and I discovered very belatedly that he has not one he has two PhDs from Germany. This is not PhDs from the United Arab Emirates. This is two German PhDs and uh that is that's very impressive achievement for sure. One is in medicine and the other may be in civil engineering. I'm not sure. And I did during the Gaza genocide, I did comment to him. I said, you know, I just found out he had two PhDs from Germany. H that's pretty good. And I said to him, frankly, I said, you know what? You deserve better from life. You deserve better. And uh he then at that point for the first time in our interactions he kind of let down his guard and he said my mother was killed, my two sons were killed and they just started to go through this long list and uh it really is it's a personal tragedy. &gt;&gt; What's what's happened to those people? Well, um, &gt;&gt; to those people. &gt;&gt; Yes. Right. Um, well, I wanted to to talk to you about, um, something that you've been outspoken about, uh, which is the framing of, uh, what's happening in Iran as the result of Israel having tricked the United States. And for some uh recent examples of this, so you have Joe Kent um who as you pointed out kind of has a Clark Kent uh look to him. Um he's Trump's former director of the National Counter Intelligence Center. um he resigned and I just want to show um read two sentences from his resignation letter and then uh we actually have video of him that he just released uh in response to the Trump uh announcement. Okay, Trump's Iran announcement. Um President Trump, after much reflection, I've decided to resign from my position as director of the National Counterterrorism Center effective today. I cannot in good conscience support the ongoing war in Iran. Iran posed no imminent threat to our nation and it is clear that we started this war due to pressure from Israel and its powerful American lobby. now, uh, &gt;&gt; he also said in that same letter, if my memory is right, &gt;&gt; throw that back up, &gt;&gt; that the 2003 war, &gt;&gt; right, &gt;&gt; was started by the Israel and the Israel lobby. &gt;&gt; Um, let's see. Um, um, &gt;&gt; just do a search of 2003. He may have said it in the I believe he said it in the letter. I I know for certain. &gt;&gt; He says, "As a veteran who deployed to combat 11 times and as a gold star husband who lost my beloved wife Shannon in a war manufactured by Israel, uh Nate, can you check um which uh uh war that was in?" Um &gt;&gt; well, he he he regarded Syria as the result of what happened in 2003. Yeah, &gt;&gt; as one of the consequences of 2003, but he did say in several interviews. Uh I can't now read your text, but he definitely said uh and here I will take I will take responsibility for my memory. He definitely said the 2003 war was orchestrated by Israel. Well, and I'm sorry to interject, but here Katie, he says here, the closest I can find in this letter was, "This was a lie and is the same tactic the Israelis used to draw us into the disastrous." &gt;&gt; Yeah. Thank you. &gt;&gt; So, early in this um uh this is Okay, so I I'm just going to Let's read It's not that long, so I'm going to read more of it. I support the values and the foreign policies that you campaigned on in 2016 2020 2024 which you enacted in your first term until June of 2025. You understood that the wars in the Middle East were a trap that robbed America of the precious lives of our patriots and depleted the wealth and prosperity of our nation. In your first administration, you understood better than any modern president had to decisively apply military power without getting us drawn into never-ending wars. You demonstrated this by killing Kasum Solammani and by defeating ISIS. Uh no actually not really because uh Sulmani was helping defeat ISIS and also uh that only avoided war because the Iranian government was so restrained in their response to the disgusting killing of Kasamsmani who I happen to I always do point out was a very handsome man. Not that that matters. Okay. Early in this administration, high-ranking Israeli officials and influential members of the American media deployed a misinformation campaign that wholly undermined your America first platform and swed pro-war sentiments to encourage a war with Iran. This echo chamber was used to deceive you into believing that Iran posed an imminent threat to the United States and that should you strike now, there was a clear path to a swift victory. This was a lie and is the same tactic the Israelis used to draw us into the disastrous Iraq war that cost our nation the lives of thousands of our best men and women. We cannot make this mistake again. As a veteran who deployed to in a war manufactured by Israel, I cannot support uh sending the next generation off to fight and die in a war that serves no benefit to the American people nor justifies the cost of American lives. I pray that you will reflect upon what we are doing in Iran and who we are doing it for. The time for bold action is now. You can reverse course and chart a new path for our nation. Or you can allow us to slip further toward decline and chaos. You hold the cards. It was an honor to serve in your administration and to serve our great nation. Okay. And yes, and Kent's wife did die in Syria. &gt;&gt; Yes. she said, as you said, was uh he saw as the result of uh being tricked by uh that we were bamboozled into, right, by by Israel. Um and then I do want to show uh uh Brad, let's show this response, a very recent response um by from Joe Kent uh to the agreement that Trump uh came to with Iran. Great news this evening that there's been a two-week ceasefire agreed upon tentatively uh between us and the Iranians. Uh it's unconfirmed yet if the Iranians have accepted this deal as well, but I I hope that they have. It's absolutely essential that we ensure that the Israelis do not sabotage this twoe ceasefire or eventually the lasting peace that we're trying to achieve with the Iranians. We're on the cusp of being able to have the straight of Hormuz reopened to hopefully start to get the world energy uh supply and commerce back online. Uh the last thing we need is the Israelis doing what they have done in past negotiations and targeting the negotiators or taking a series of strikes that escalates the conflict. In order to ensure that we we can restrain the Israelis, we actually have to start removing features of the military support that we give to them. We have to take away enough from them that they simply cannot go on the offense, that they're using all their military capabilities that we provide for them and that they have organically for the defense of their country and not for offensive operations inside of Iran. It's absolutely critical that we take this step and don't just take Israel's word for it that they agree to this ceasefire uh simply because they have a very bad track record of adhering to these deals. We also have to keep in mind that Israel has a different strategic outcome than we do. US working towards any kind of a deal with the Iranian government works against the Israeli strategic objectives of toppling this government completely and totally. We have to recognize that in order to properly address Israel because Israel could spoil any peace that President Trump is working to achieve. So we have to keep that in mind. &gt;&gt; Okay. So what is your response to this? Well, first of all, you'd have to bear in mind before we an analyze what he had to say that that is the opinion across the political spectrum that this was Israel's war. And I want to emphasize across the political spectrum. Um, I think it's going to be a lamentable fact in my opinion. before I get to the analysis that the main beneficiary of this whole Iran aggression, the main beneficiary, at least in this thing called the podcast world is going to be Tucker Carlson because Tucker Carlson, again giving credit where credit's due, he used this platform from the get-go, actually from a month before the get-go. when he had several meetings with Trump to counsel against going to war with Iran, he said it was going to be a disaster. It was going to be a military debacle. However, why do I say it's lamentable that he's going to get the lion share of credit because his stock is going to be soaring now. And he blamed the whole war in Israel. If you followed his commentary, in fact, he said in some of his commentary that Israel wanted to weaken the United States and that Israel wanted to uh enter into an alliance with India. Where he came up with that only God knows. But he was saying that Israel not only wanted to defeat Iran and drag in the US to accomplish that goal, but Israel actually wanted to undermine weaken the United States now because his authority has been increased a thousandfold as a result of him being right on the substantive question namely this is going to be a debacle everything else he said is now going to become the received wisdom I don't I don't think his his beliefs are going to be disagregated as in okay he got that right but the other stuff is crazy no it's going to be a package uh of what he said And even people like you call them left liberals. People like Daniel Levy or Daniel Levy, &gt;&gt; the Israeli uh I mean the British uh uh diplomat who um was a hostage negotiator, served in the IDF is Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. He says it's Israel wars. Everybody's calling it Israel's war, which I think is just there. There is an element that's correct. So, let me just back up for a moment. I was just reading a book uh published by Orbooks by a fellow named Beirus Gamari. &gt;&gt; The wrong war on Iran. yes, &gt;&gt; we did not plan that. Yeah. &gt;&gt; What struck me, even though my memory is pretty decent the further back you go, don't ask me what happened five minutes ago, um, everything old is new again. The same claims about re the same claims about Iranian terrorism, the same claims about the crazy moolas, the same claims about we need regime change, everything was in the Bush uh George W. Bush in the George W. Bush era. There's nothing new in this. Now it is true that there was a new level of audaciousness by Trump but it's not as if this is suddenly promoted by Trump at the behest of Israel. Now to get to the substantive question which I've not yet which I've not avoided but just wanted to put the context. I've read very carefully the available record on Iraq. There is no evidence with all due respect to my friend uh John Mirshimer who by the way is a West Pointer. &gt;&gt; I am. It's very strange that I'm finding myself in more disagree more agreement with him than many people on the left when it comes to &gt;&gt; Ukraine. &gt;&gt; The only place where I think though we've never discussed it where I think we disagree a lot this on China &gt;&gt; of course &gt;&gt; but that's a separate that's another time another place &gt;&gt; and the lobby. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, that's where I'm going to get to now. That with all my affection, a genuine affection for John Beer Shimemer, there is no evidence that Israel played any role whatsoever in the US decision to go to war with Iraq in 2003. the principal architects of the war at the at the high level. Bush in the White House, he basically didn't know if he was coming or going. He had no real interest. He was in many ways similar to Barack Obama. He had no interest whatever in politics. and the claims that it was a kind of psychological contest with his father. There may be actually some I I shy away from psychological interpretations but here there may have been but not so Bush was very remote. He did make the final decision for sure. He was the president. But his final decision was constrained by the options and alternatives that were by presented to him by people like Cheney and Rumsfeld. &gt;&gt; And the principal architects of the attack on Iraq were Cheney and Rumsfeld. I don't think anybody disputes that. You can say several things about Cheney and Rub Silt. Number one, they had long experience in politics. They went back by the time they were in the Bush White House, uh they had been in politics for about 40 years. They knew the system inside out both institutionally and in terms of personalities. Number one. Number two, it should be &gt;&gt; I knew also the system how to get out of uh Vietnam by uh getting uh Lin Cheney pregnant right on time. number two, nobody's going to claim that Cheney and Rumsfeld were acting according to Israeli interests. Chenny and Rumsfeld, they're extremely smart, highly competent, hardworking, and they were using their smarts, their competence, and their conscientiousness on behalf of US interests as they perceived them. As a anecdote, my closest childhood friend who passed away prematurely from cancer, he was a brilliant guy. No question about it. Actually, he was the boyfriend of Chuck Schumer's sister. And that's how I knew his sister, friend. &gt;&gt; His name was Mark Con. He staffed he headed up the computer system in the Bush White House. &gt;&gt; Oh, right. Yeah. and we avoided talking politics whenever we interacted and we didn't interact much because I figured I would be a security threat for him and I didn't want to cause him troubles and I'm sure he was aware of it and he didn't want troubles caused for him so but occasionally we would talk and he said to me Norman I want to tell you those guys Cheney Ramsel they are very hardwork working very hard. And I thought to myself, well, that's true. They're absolutely committed to US national interests. You know, Rumsfeld, he was famous. He never sat down. He sat at a le sat at stood at a lect turn for 17 hours and he used to uh all these memos used to come from him and they used to call them Rumsfeld's snowflakes. always memos memos memos coming from his lectern. So they were highly competent, long experience in government. I can tell you one thing for certain, nobody dupes Cheney and Rumsfeld. That does not happen. Period. Full stop. Now, some people want to make the claim, okay, maybe not Cheney and Rumsfeld, but what about the second tier right below them? All those neoconservatives, &gt;&gt; who are, you know, people like Douglas, &gt;&gt; W Paul Wolitz, &gt;&gt; Pearl, &gt;&gt; Richard Pearl. What about all the second tier Jewish neoconservatives? I don't remember if Richard Pearl is Jewish. I don't think so, but I could be wrong with that. &gt;&gt; I thought it was, but &gt;&gt; I could be wrong, but you're correct. Wolffulawitz, uh, Douglas Feith, and, uh, a large number of others, a very, uh, Scooter Libby. Um, but here's the problem with that argument. Here's the problem with that argument. Cheney and Rumsfeld chose all of them, &gt;&gt; They they knew those people for decades. They went back a long ways. They knew how to size up a person. Now, I think Katie and I can agree on this book. Cheney, neither Cheney nor Rumsfeld would ever have chose me, &gt;&gt; For a key position in the Bush administration. That's not going to happen. &gt;&gt; Pearl is Jewish, by the way. Just for &gt;&gt; he is Pearl. Yeah. Okay. um he they they chose people who are working for the US not working for So they thought that first of all they all agreed that Iran was the big migill. The question was the sequence. &gt;&gt; The Israelis wanted to go after Iran first. The uh Cheney and Rumsfeld saw it as Iran, excuse me, Iraq, Syria, Iran, &gt;&gt; But they all saw toppling Iran as in the US interest. How could they not? Since 1979, every US administration has targeted Iran. Between 1980 and 88, Iran fought a a very brutal war with Iraq. About a million people were killed in the war. Who supplied the weapons for Iraq? The United States. Who enabled Iraq to use chemical weapons against Iran? The United States. Who concealed Iran's use of chemical weapons against Iran? The United States. Iran has always been on the US agenda. So this notion that suddenly Donald Trump dreamt us dreamt up the idea that Iran was a mortal enemy of the United States because he was tricked by the Israelis. It has no contact with the whole historical context of the US Iranian relationship since the revolution in 1979 and truth be told both at the time of Cheney and Rumsfeld as at now as the National interest is perceived by ruling elites. Iran was an enemy. The United States and Israel both had a common objective in wanting to dominate the Middle East. Iran was an obstacle to the USIsraeli design for the region. When people like my friend John Mirshimer when they say as they do in the book that uh attacking Iran, overthrowing Iran was not in the US national interest. So it must have been Israel who orchestrated it. &gt;&gt; Ask yourself a simple question, Ms. Katie, and for your listeners, a simple question. Let's say the Iraq war went as they thought it would go, a cakewalk. Or let's take the current case. If Trump's assault on Iran, the Trump Israeli assault on Iran, it had turned out to be a cakewalk as Netanyahu no doubt told Trump it would be. Would anyone have said that overthrowing the government of Iran wasn't in the US national interest? Would any have anyone have said that? The question is not whether that is the perceived interest of the US. The issue became then and now that it was unsuccessfully executed, &gt;&gt; They didn't win. But nobody would dispute, I'm talking about the ruling elites, not me or you. Nobody would dispute then or now that had the Iranian regime been toppled, it would have been regarded as a huge US victory. In fact, the Democratic Party dreaded that prospect. They were afraid of Trump winning because they knew how it would boost his stock. I don't believe there's any evidence whatsoever. The is the Americans didn't rely on Israeli intelligence in 2003. They relied on their own intelligence agencies plus plus Cheney and Rumsfeld disregarded the intelligence information when it didn't suit their interests. But the emphasis is their interests. They didn't disregard the intelligence it would ser because the intelligence was contrary to Israeli interests. That never entered the picture. There's no evidence of that. If you go read, I read all the memoirs. I read all the secondary literature because obviously most of the documents haven't yet been released. There's what's it's called the 30-year rule that you don't release them until 30 years after. But um I read most of the memoirs. Did Cheney and Rumsfeld when the war went south it was a disaster. Militarily it was a disaster. Did Cheney or Rumsfeld? No. They had nasty words about Condisa Rice. They had nasty words about Colin Powell. They had nasty words about everybody. Did any of them say anything negative about the neoconservatives? As in, they tricked us, they fooled us, they duped us. Did any of them read the memoirs I have? Doesn't exist. Nobody made that claim. Now, as you know, when a war goes south, everybody's looking for scapegoats. Sure. &gt;&gt; They didn't scapegoat the neoconservatives. Never. Not one word. Period. Full stop. Not one word. I stand on that. I sat down and I read through a mountain of literature, both the secondary, mostly journalistic accounts and the memoirs afterwards. Now coming to the present there is a difference and I have no axe to grind. I do believe the Israelis did play a role this time and I'll explain to you why. Ramell Cheney and all previous presidents by the way, they always had topofthe-line people in the administrations. They did not promote second raiders. And you may not like them, but Hillary Clinton very competent. Yeah. Administrator. &gt;&gt; As an administrator, she was very good. I mean, I remember Bernie Sanders told a story that he was in the same plane as her as they were going to speak on the healthc care issue at some conference. And he said she gave a talk one hour long. She never looked at the note. &gt;&gt; He said he said he's he was me mesmerized. She had a very high level of competence. John Kerry, who was Obama's second secretary of state, highly competent. &gt;&gt; Highly competent. I've heard it from people who are in the know. Um they always uh the the uh leaders Jimmy Carter, you know, he had Cyrus Vance, very impressive. Uh Reagan had George Schultz. These are very highly experienced people. &gt;&gt; They knew the world. &gt;&gt; And Trump has yesmen, idiotic yesmen. &gt;&gt; Trump had sub mediocre Yesmen, you know, &gt;&gt; often evangelical. &gt;&gt; He had Yeah. &gt;&gt; Marco Rubio, you know, Marco Rubio when he goes to the toilet, he brings along his GPS to find his [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] He's a complete [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] then Hex Seth, you know, is he secretary of defense, is he secretary of war, &gt;&gt; Or is he secretary of hair gel? You know, it's hard to tell. all of his female appointments, all of his female pines, um Pam Bondi, uh Christy Noom, they all look like their last job was at Hooters. That's who he appointed. Uh Joe Kent, um Hex Seth Trump saw them last at Chip and Dales. That's how he picked them, you know. So they were just sub mediocre yes people. And Trump knew that. I mean Trump he knows people. He's been around. He chose them because he wanted to be surrounded by yes people. And he chose them because he wanted them to be mediocre because that would make him look better. &gt;&gt; So he has to now make a decision about Iran and he doesn't trust any of these people. And so there was what I would call anformational void and Netanyahu filled that void. Trump trusted him in his military judgment, you know, political military judgment. And you could imagine what Netanyahu said to him. It's going to be a cakewalk. Iran is on the pref precipice. You just need to push it a little. Uh it's never been weaker. Uh Hezbollah has been defanged. Hamas has been destroyed. Uh all of Iran's missiles were destroyed last year in June. And so you could imagine and he souped him up. You know, he said, "If you do this, you will be regarded as the greatest military hero of history. You'll be like Douglas MacArthur. You'll be like Caesar. And you'll be like uh Napoleon and Trump." Even though he knew he's you know Trump is if any &gt;&gt; an ideologue also &gt;&gt; he's um uh Trump is excuse me Netanyahu is a very talented used car salesman. &gt;&gt; So and even though Trump knew he was being souped up, he still loved it because he's a megalomaniac. So I do believe if you were to uh engage in a thought experiment, what if Trump solicited uh Netanyahu's advice and Netanyahu had told him, "Don't do it. It's going to be a disaster. Stay away. Don't do it." I for one have no doubt that he would not have done it. He would not have. So if Israel had councled against it, it probably would not have happened. &gt;&gt; The other thing is Trump, it's a very personalized presidency, &gt;&gt; There hasn't been anything quite like it. Everybody knows that there hasn't been anything quite like it because the people in office, they always did look after the US national interest as they perceived it. They were serious about that. &gt;&gt; Well, isn't that something that we have to define because I think that's one of &gt;&gt; I said as they perceived it. &gt;&gt; Right. Right. No. Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Qualifying as they perceived it. But they were always very serious about their responsibility in office. The most serious in, you know, in my living time, uh, the most serious were probably, I would say, probably LBJ and Carter. Carter was the most serious. Carter came in with an agenda and he was very serious and determined to implement it. Clinton also came in with an agenda and he was also very serious to implement it. I don't think he had that level of concentration of Carter but very smart. Very smart. Uh Trump the US national interest it lingers in the background like background music. It's there because HE'S A MEMBER OF THAT CLASS, &gt;&gt; RIGHT? &gt;&gt; He's a member of that class. So his instincts are to defend the interests of that class to which he belongs. However, I believe, as I said, it's in the way of background music. He's such a megalomaniac, such a stupifying narcissist that his first impulses are not the national interest. It's there, but his first impulses are him. &gt;&gt; So, &gt;&gt; and he he he chose this moment to launch the attack, in my opinion, for intersecting positive and negative reasons. &gt;&gt; Oh, he's an intersectionalist. You'll love him. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, this phone does not seem to work. Okay, let me give me one half &gt;&gt; I turn it off, but it doesn't turn off. Just give me one half moment. &gt;&gt; Last time I saw Norm getting a phone call, he got some uh suspicious package which he did not open. &gt;&gt; I don't know. I'm Okay, I know how to turn it off. I'm just going to disconnect it the oldfashioned way. &gt;&gt; Oh yeah. So, in my opinion, there were inducements, though. No, I am not into intersectionality. Neither. &gt;&gt; That's Kimberly Krenshaw's in vacuous term. I won't go there. Um, in any event, there was the sequence of events with him getting credit for ending the quote unquote war in Gaza to the point that the US sec UN Security Council gave him the deed to Gaza. He thought he was going to win the Nobel Peace Prize for it. Didn't turn out to be the case. And then of course the immaculate coup in Venezuela, &gt;&gt; And so that was it. It it massaged &gt;&gt; had no problem with obviously &gt;&gt; it massaged his already oversized ego hubris his overs overdeveloped hubris. And then there were two negative factors which I think have largely been forgotten already forgotten. Number one was the debacle with Greenland when he kept saying, "I'm going to take it. I'm going to take it. Nobody's going to stop me. I'm going to take it." And it fizzled out. And then there was the second big disaster for him which was Minneapolis. &gt;&gt; Right. where he was very determined that ICE was going to take over and finally he had to back out. &gt;&gt; Right? &gt;&gt; So he suffered two defeats. So there were the positive inducements of Gaza and Venezuela and the negative inducements of the debacles with uh Greenland and um &gt;&gt; Minneapolis &gt;&gt; and Minneapolis. And I believe that he was just concerned about his image. Now, it's not as if it's not as if the decision going to Iran conflicted with US national interests as perceived by ruling elites. It did not. But I don't believe and here I think it's different than other presidents. I don't believe it was uppermost the national interest. I don't think Cheney and Rumsfeld, I don't think Hillary Clinton, I don't think Meline Albbright, I don't think any of them would have counseledled in favor of a war if they thought it might go badly. Now, neither did Trump. He didn't think it would go badly. But I don't think the national interest is uppermost. It's a very &gt;&gt; personalized &gt;&gt; personalized oval office, &gt;&gt; But can I what is &gt;&gt; the national interest is the background &gt;&gt; that doesn't that doesn't that's not his prime motivator and as I said I do believe uh so this is what you might call a nuance in my opinion unlike in 2003 I do believe the Israelis They played a They tipped the balance. &gt;&gt; Okay. Right. &gt;&gt; They tipped the balance, but it wasn't as if the US had no interest &gt;&gt; or was duped. But I want to ask you, Norman, &gt;&gt; you said you said sure, but why is everybody saying differently? I I understand that I'm getting criticized heavily &gt;&gt; now. I haven't watched any of I don't watch that stuff, but on podcasts for saying it's not Israel's war. I I find that so odd. I think because there's been a major America first I mean you talk about this the the the Tucker Carlson's but there has been a major America first um infiltration uh maybe is the right word into um like you know we have to have coalitions but one of the problems is if I think if the left totally seeds the pro Palestine movement and I know you don't say you're pro Palestine you're not pro- Israel you're not pro Palestine you're protruth and justice. But for for short um hand, I mean, I do think that we do have to be better about framing this um correctly. I think it's such an easy narrative to latch on to and it's easy for people on both sides of the political spectrum. And so I think there's been a lot of agreement over that. And so you'll have people saying, I mean, this I I I whenever I hear this, I just I have to like not laugh, but this isn't who we are, you know? This is not who we are. That that is I mean a ridiculous &gt;&gt; You have to be look you come from a left family, &gt;&gt; You have to have knowledge of some knowledge of history to not just break out in laughter at the claims that are being made now. like they said there was an article yesterday about whether attacking infrastructure is a war crime and they said no president has ever been so brazen as Trump uh the statements he made yesterday and then today. Uh and then they said but it's true this was an article I think by Edward Wong was his name the times the US didn't always &gt;&gt; right &gt;&gt; honor the laws of war. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Right. I mean, I think that uh Israel is well well I actually want to ask you though like what is the perceived national interest because that term gets thrown around so much. &gt;&gt; The perceived natural national national interest is the same one with uh Egypt under Nasser, &gt;&gt; right? that uh the fear that there would be independent autonomous regional development that wasn't completely controlled and dominated by the US. &gt;&gt; And in fact, at the very start of the aggression against Iran, Lindsey Graham, who often puts in very pathy and vulgar terms the reality of how these people think, he said, "We've got the Venezuelan oil. If we get the Iranian oil, he said, we'll control 31% of the world's oil. That's a very national interest for the ruling elites, especially since so much of uh Chinese oil comes from Iran. And there is some truth to the fact that the war in Ukraine, the war in Iran, these are all stepping stones in um the great the big one, the war with China, &gt;&gt; And it's a desire to control as much of the as many of the critical resources as the US can as it poises for the uh the showdown with China. And I did find it interesting that in the initial articles, we don't know the details yet, but if you read the initial articles on this deal that's been struck between uh negotiated by Pakistan, they said China weighed in and China I I don't think they used the word put pressure, but China told Iran to accept it. Um, China's watching very closely because they know the United States is up to. And part of what the Chinese say, it's kind of rhetorical. It's the old left. But they say that United States is a dying empire. And when they're a dying empire, you only have one tool in the shed. It's called force. You can't win on the economic level against China. That's not going to happen. And so the United States is playing its one card. And it's one card is its capacity to sow limitless death and destruction. &gt;&gt; Uh so I I I I think there is as perceived by ruling elites, there is a national interest in overthrowing Iran, the same national interest as there was in defeating Nasser. And that's when Israel became the US's strategic asset. It wasn't a strategic asset before 1967. &gt;&gt; It was a backwater. If you were to ask your mother, &gt;&gt; excuse me, &gt;&gt; or father, I don't know if both of them, but at least your mother, an oldtime leftist, you ask her, "Did anybody talk about Israel before ' 67? The only time Israel came ever came up was charitable donations to build, you know, give money for a tree, &gt;&gt; in Israel." Yeah. That was it. It was 67. Why was it 67? &gt;&gt; Because that's when it was revealed it was a strategic asset. The United States in the 60 inflicted a devastating defeat on Arab secular nationalism as embodied in Nasser. And NASA was seen as a um as a pin well not a pin an obstacle &gt;&gt; to &gt;&gt; US domination of the region. The great contenders were Egypt under Nasser versus the Saudis. They were the Saudis represented the conservative regimes. Uh there was a good book written by the president of AUB. It was called the the Arabs something like the Arab civil war something like that. There was a civil war. It was at that time secular Arab what was called radical Arab nationalism embodied in Nasser also in Syria the Baist party versus the fundamentalist regimes like Saudi. And then in 79 the terms were rewritten. Now it was radical Islamic fundamentalism versus the west. Uh different name, same enemy. The enemy was any independent regime that would check to some extent check US power and also Israeli power. &gt;&gt; Check. I want to show part of in in your book um knowing too much because just I mean you what I thought was fascinating about this is that you use Iran as kind of a test case of of how and why it is the national interest United States national interest and not the lobby right that's that dominate that um shapes policy and you actually quoted a um someone named Ru Mark Gerek &gt;&gt; Ru Gar &gt;&gt; yes who was a um former CIA expert on the Middle East and the leading neoonservative authority on Iran and he said um tyran certainly wants nuclear weapons and its reasoning is not illogical. Iran was gassed into surrender. The &gt;&gt; you mind if I ask you to read this slowly because it's a very revealing quote. &gt;&gt; Just bear in mind for your listeners this is a neoconservative &gt;&gt; but somebody who also had the capacity to be on occasion candid right &gt;&gt; and this is what he had to say. Go ahead. &gt;&gt; Iran was gassed into surrender in the first Persian Gulf War of 1980 to88. Pakistan, Iran's ever more radicalized Sunni neighbor to the southeast, has nuclear weapons. Saddam Hussein, with his Scuds and his weapons of mass destruction ambitions, is next door. Saudi Arabia, Iran's most ardent and reviled religious rival, has long range missiles. Russia, historically one of Iran's most feared neighbors, is once again trying to reassert its dominions in the neighboring caucuses. And Israel could of course blow the Islamic Republic to bits. Having been vanquished by a technologically superior Iraq at a cost of at least half million men, Iran knows very well the consequences of having insufficient deterrence. And the Iranians possess the essential factor to make deterrence work, sanity. Thrron or Isvahan in ashes would destroy the Persian soul about which even the most hardline cleric cares deeply. As long as the Iranians believe that either the US or Israel or somebody else in the region might retaliate with nuclear weapons, they won't do something stupid. And then you write, "The actual fear of American policymakers," Garrick suggested, was not the terminal insanity, but the tactical lucidity of an Iran in possession of these weapons. And then you quote Garrick, "A nuclear armed Islamic Republic would of course check if not checkmate uh the United States maneuvering room in the Persian Gulf. We would no doubt think several times about responding to Iran. Nan, sorry. We would no doubt think several times before responding to Iranian terrorism or military action if Tran had the bomb and a missile to deliver it. During the leadup to the second Gulf War of 1991, ruling clerical circles in Tran and K were a buzz with the debate about nuclear weapons. The Mullas agreed. If Saddam Hussein had nuclear weapons, the Americans would not have challenged him. For the left and the right, this weaponry is the ultimate guarantee of Iran's defense, its revolution, and its independence as a regional great power. &gt;&gt; Yes. As an independence as a regional great power, &gt;&gt; And that was what the US and Israel opposed. Israel for slightly different uh Israel, it's not so much economic reasons as it's this kind of um it's this kind of uber mench mentality. &gt;&gt; And here you do do some psychoanalysis, right? &gt;&gt; Or you accept it. I'm not I'm not calling you out. That's not a gotcha. &gt;&gt; I think it's a it's a definite problem. I I think it's an autonomous problem. the Jewish supremacist uh outlook that's now pervasive in Israel. There was a time where you could say there were pockets of critical reflection. That's all gone now. That place is overthe-top bonkers. Well, um I do want to show one more thing since we're talking about the the I mean I think when you're saying nuanced and how you think that this in this case Israel did tip the balance. &gt;&gt; But at the same time I &gt;&gt; tip the balance in the sense that if they had advised the reverse I don't think it would have happened. &gt;&gt; Right. Right. And I think that there's a lot of um that with Trump. I mean I think that there are two extremes which is that one is that he's totally unprecedented and aberration and then the other one is no he's exactly like every other president. I think it is in between those two things. It's in between. &gt;&gt; But I do want &gt;&gt; I think it's qualitatively I would say &gt;&gt; look every President Lyndon Johnson he didn't want to be the first you at that time of course you're way way too young to remember but we were always taught in school the United States never lost the war &gt;&gt; You never states never lost the war. Johnson didn't want to be the first president and then Nixon didn't want to be the first president to be in the history books as having preside over the first war that the United States ever lost. So there's always that element of egotism. &gt;&gt; At play. I'm not going to deny that you don't become president of the United States unless you don't unless you have an enlarged ego. That's for sure. And everybody had their what you might call eccentricities. In the case of Obama, from the day Obama stepped into office, his only concern was one one his legacy. &gt;&gt; That's all he cared about. Obama, the only thing he saw in his mind's eye was his bust on Mount Rushmore. That's why he always held his head like that, you know. It was always &gt;&gt; Yeah. People commented on that. you know, because he thought he was on Mount Rushmore. &gt;&gt; And that actually turned out to be a good thing. We're honest. You know, I loathe Obama, but I tried to be objective &gt;&gt; because he was concerned about his legacy, he didn't want to get involved in a formal war. You remember when the Syrians used the chemical allegedly used the chemical weapons and Obama had said the use of chemical weapons was a red line, &gt;&gt; right? Right. &gt;&gt; But he didn't go to war. Why didn't he go to war? Not that they gave a darn about people getting killed. That's not Obama. Obama killed quite a lot of people with the drones. Uh but because he thought they go south. And I don't want to have the same legacy as Bush. So because of his vanity, we were actually spared any full-fledged wars. Now there was a lot of killing on the side. No question about that. droning, &gt;&gt; but we were spared, you know, a full-fledged war. So, everybody has their eccentricities uh and egos, but the Trump phenomenon is on a different scale. It clearly is. &gt;&gt; And and also, um I wanted I do want to show this video though, especially since you brought up Obama. This is a video of Hillary Clinton. So, going back to the the bipartisan nature of of the hawkery, Iran hawkery, here's Hillary Clinton in 2007 on the campaign trail. Let's hear what she had to say. &gt;&gt; The Iranians to know that if I'm the president, we will attack Iran. Whatever stage of development they might be in their nuclear weapons program in the next 10 years during which they might foolishly consider launching an attack on Israel, we would be able to totally obliterate them. That's a terrible thing to say, but those people who run Iran need to understand that because that perhaps will deter them from doing something that would be reckless, foolish, and tragic. &gt;&gt; Which just tells you what every listener of your program already knows. The spectrum is very narrow, &gt;&gt; In the ruling elite, &gt;&gt; the spectrum is very narrow. So obliterate Iran is not much different than sending it back to the stone age or destroying its civilization. It's a slightly different turn of phrase, but the image it projects is not that different. It's a narrow spectrum and Trump was on that spectrum. Trump was on that narrow spectrum, especially if you go back and look at what was being said uh he was in the what you would call the neoconservative end of a narrow spectrum but what what was different here is and I I don't want to I don't want to keep be I don't want to be repetitive is that Trump you don't get the feeling that he's making many of his decisions based on the national interest. It's not as if they are against the natural interest. They're not. But that's not his impulses. Now, why he agreed to do what he did today? I think those images of all those Iranians surrounding the bridges and sending in the people to kill them. I think it would have been a problem for him. Just like Lynden Johnson, uh it seems that the anti-war protest, well, they did get to him. You know, the slogan, it did get to him. Hey, hey, LBJ, how many kids did you kill today? Apparently, it got to him. and he apparently was now I don't I haven't read the most recent scholarship on the subject but it was said or decades ago now by Daniel Ellburg that the demonstrations did deter him from using nuclear weapons and also Nixon uh there was um Nixon once there were the mass mobilizations against the war in Vietnam and Nixon said when he was asked asked about them. He said, "Oh, I was too busy watching a football game." And there was a famous song by Pete Seager, famous in the anti-war movement. &gt;&gt; Called Last Train to Nuremberg. &gt;&gt; And one of the lyrics went, "If 500,000 mothers marched in Washington, would the president say, I was too busy watching a football game?" But it turned out he wasn't too busy. It turned out he was as it was depicted he was scared of the demonstrators. Now this is something very different but it's the same human factor if you want to call. I think Trump had problems with that image. &gt;&gt; I think he had pro not gives a darn &gt;&gt; but it would have looked so terrible. &gt;&gt; Yeah. so so so terrible that he he was desperately looking for a way to back out. Um, I'll only say and then I'm going to leave it off. Um, I do think there is a I don't want to sound condescending or patronizing, but there is a significant lack of historical memory and that gap or you might say abyss is now being filled by right-wing pundits. Look, my view is if Jews get blamed, guess what? They deserve a lot of blame. They do. Israeli state, you know. I think it's a historical abortion. I don't think the experiment the Jewish experiment with power &gt;&gt; proved to be a disaster. A disaster. A catastrophe. On the other hand, not absolving Israel of any of its ini uh iniquities. Iniquities. Yeah. Iniquity. Not resol absolving Israel of any of its iniquity. We have to get the fact right. &gt;&gt; The US was not committed to destroying the Iranian regime. They had they had sanctions on Iran since 1980. So this notion of a naive US government being tricked by Israel. &gt;&gt; And it it's not that you I mean you everyone knows that you're probably one of the the most um prolific critics of Israel. So, it's, as you just said, it's not about exonerating Israel or letting Israel off the hook or whitewashing their I mean, their genocide. It's just that if we want to understand, not to sound corny, but if we want to understand how to stop this, we do have to understand where it comes from. And if you just Israel colonizing the American mind, and also if you don't think that there's a Christian Zionist streak to it, you're just not understanding like how it all works. So, Yeah. And I think it it's going to be I think it's going to be unfortunate that the um Tucker Carlson's and the Candace Owens and the Nick Fuentes that all of their stock is going to go through the ceiling. They were right on this point, but the problem is as you know, it's not disagregated. It's not like they were right on this but wrong on that. &gt;&gt; It's going to be They were prophets, &gt;&gt; P R O P H E Ts. &gt;&gt; And they predicted everything, right? it's going to be a disaster. &gt;&gt; Well, you were on Candace Owens show, so you should have you should convince her to um to uh have you back on and you can explain to her. &gt;&gt; None of them have warned me on &gt;&gt; But you had me on once. not to tell her that uh Jews were not the disproportionate &gt;&gt; doctor unfortunately and I I have to be careful about my language because I don't need to make gratuitous enemies. The enemies I I have made I made them very conscious that there were significant issues at stake. Um, I think there is a large, not a large, let's call it a significant portion of the political spectrum that wants to blame it on the Jews. I think that's a problem. Not I say &gt;&gt; I know it's so &gt;&gt; you have you have to bear responsibility for your ex. I'm not going to exonerate you. Of course you wanted that war with Iran. Of course you wanted it. I know And you're a nation of child killers. A nation as Ted Postal, the the MIT weapons expert. He described Netanyahu and he's Jewish by the way, Ted Postol, he described Netanyahu as a quote &gt;&gt; homicidal &gt;&gt; homicidal maniac. &gt;&gt; Right? But that's that's only a part of the problem. It's actually &gt;&gt; a nation of homicidal maniacs. &gt;&gt; A nation of homicidal maniacs. It's a nation of homicidal &gt;&gt; like a couple normal people who you know &gt;&gt; if they pro I mean it's a handful. &gt;&gt; They could fit in my room. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Exactly. &gt;&gt; Unfortunately, I don't say that gleefully. &gt;&gt; I know. &gt;&gt; But that's just a fact. &gt;&gt; That's just a fact. I'm I you you know you reap what you have sown. What goes round comes round. &gt;&gt; And one of the things I wrote about a lot in that chapter, I don't know if you got to the end &gt;&gt; was how cautious American Jews were about the war in Iraq. &gt;&gt; Well, I was going to ask you if how much you think this has changed post. We'll have to have another discussion on this because something else I wanted to ask you was whether anything that you wrote you think is different post October 7th. &gt;&gt; I think a lot of Jews have jumped ship. &gt;&gt; Yeah. You don't you cannot imagine what the times were like back in like the 80s. Do you know what's one of the most remarkable aspects about what happened in the last since February 28th? Years gone by, decades gone by now when Israel was just in danger, there would be the mass mobilizations. You go read a million people would come uh Fifth Avenue emergency mass mobilization Israel under attack &gt;&gt; nothing now nothing now dead silence and now it's being attacked you know I don't know how significant the damage is but it is being attacked the other thing which is Very interesting. The normal mouthpieces for Israel, like the New York Times. It's very obvious from the coverage. They want Trump to lose. The coverage has been pretty harsh &gt;&gt; on Trump. Every headline, not very much coverage of the attacks on Not much. Right. &gt;&gt; The point is if Trump loses, Israel loses. They're joined at the hip right now. The ruling elites, as they express themselves in, say, the New York Times, they are effectively rooting for an Israeli defeat. Now, listen to what I say. They're effectively rooting for an Israeli defeat because if Trump loses, Israel loses. They're joined at the hip. It's not like Germany won and [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] I mean Germany lost and Japan won. That doesn't happen. But they look out for the US national interest organs like the Times and they think Trump's a disaster. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So if they have to choose Trump losing with Israel losing, they'll choose that. &gt;&gt; That's unprecedented. Unprecedented what's happening now. They are effectively rooting Israel against its arch enemy, the Islamic State of Iran, and they want Israel to lose. or they're willing to accept &gt;&gt; Israel losing to inflict the defeat on Trump. That's new. That's new. &gt;&gt; Well, Norman, as always, this has been very illuminating, enlightening, fascinating. Lots of you got getting a lot of love in the comments. Um, there was a question for you about the Samson option, but uh, Rev, I'm going to ask it to our next guest because they'll also have insight into that having been in the the military. Um uh and Norman, please come back. Always amazing. &gt;&gt; Okay. I'd like to speak to your producer for one moment. &gt;&gt; Okay. Uh &gt;&gt; Oh, boy. &gt;&gt; Yeah. No, just streaming though. Do you mean privately or in front of everyone? &gt;&gt; Yes. If you can give me a call. &gt;&gt; Oh, we'll do. &gt;&gt; Please don't remember because my publisher will slip my throat if I don't talk to you. &gt;&gt; Okie dokie. All right. &gt;&gt; Thanks, Norman. Okay. So nice to talk to you. &gt;&gt; You too, but I need Brad for a minute or something. Okay, Brad, don't call him. I I Brad, we need to show the um the Okay. Uh we're going to show a clip uh teasing the Patreon. Then Brad is going to read some super chats and then he will call Norman. So, um by the way, do not go anywhere because you are definitely going to want to see our next guest. Uh Greg Stoker and Anthony Aguilar, both anti-war veterans, both running for Congress. Um, Anthony blew the whistle on the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation, which is really the Gaza Holocaust Foundation, as Aaron Mate dubbed it. Um, I always do encourage people to become Patreon supporters. It's the way that this show keeps going. And, uh, you will definitely want to become Patreon supporters because a couple things. I will read your names at the end of the show for anyone who joins during the show, uh, which is exciting. And because if you join the Patreon, you will see you will get uh sooner rather than later an interview that I did with um the members of kneecap. And in fact, it's on Patreon right now. And if you uh join the Patreon, you'll be able to watch it. Although, I hope you'll wait till this show is is over. But here is a teaser of that little press conference interview that I did with kneecap in Cuba. the goal s &gt;&gt; ah yeah very enjoyable &gt;&gt; I mean unfortunately we we we only did the three songs I think the Cubans are very like the Irish like we don't need an excuse to party like we'll party at the drop of a hat you know and it's again it's it's beautiful actually to come here finally and to see you know the similarities between Cuba and Ireland we have such shared history and just See everyone out there, you know, the resilience. &gt;&gt; I can't make it up. You can't make that up. &gt;&gt; And that of course is uh a blackout that &gt;&gt; Oops. That's a blackout that happened right uh during this uh press conference. So, uh I asked them some interesting questions about uh Cuba, Ireland, Palestine. Uh it's a great little uh short interview. You also get some footage to see some footage of them performing. So again, you can access that at patreon.com/thekatthewhelper shown. Now, uh uh before I bring on the next guest, Brad is going to spend like two minutes reading some super chats, but also how are we doing with likes? I should have looked at this before and and um guilted everyone before. Oh, we're pretty good with likes. Okay, I don't have to try anyone. All right, so um I will be right back. Um you're just gonna It'll take I'll be back in one minute. I'm just setting something up and Brian is going to do like a minute or two of super chats. Cool. Thank &gt;&gt; Alrighty. Thank you so much everyone for sticking around. This has been a really great show. Um really looking forward to hearing from Greg and Anthony. And let's see what we got. Um Janette Lynn White House became a new YouTube member. Thank you so much Janette. Welcome. And uh Ernest Peebles a super sticker. Thank you so much. Uh Louise Brooks 1571, a super sticker. Thank you very very much. Jim Talb, and I apologize to anyone if I'm mispronouncing your name. I'm sorry. Uh a super sticker. Thank you very much, Jim. Firmware. Uh thank you so much as always, Firmware. The fate of all human groups andor states that one begin in violence and two sustained by violence is to three wither and fade away. I think that history would uh back that And firmware again, uh thank you so much for your generosity. Firmware, I would like to spend a year in Norm's brain taking notes. Yeah, I think that we would need we would all need maybe more than a year. his his knowledge is just uh encyclopedic. Jam Mogan 7032, thanks for going live with Finkelestein. Absolutely. Thank you. From where again, oh my gosh. Uh all right. The fate of all human groups three wither and fade away. This includes sadly the US. A strap in folks. We're in for a rough ride. Been very busy, but I'm back. Oh, glad to hear it and thank you so very much for your generosity, firmware, and everyone. Um, Exit X101, thank you so much to you and uh, firmware. Holy cow. I think Chuck S, I imagine you mean Chuck Schumer, is a dim bulb. He can't see that his support for the state I cannot spell is ultimately self-defeating. Yeah. But honestly, um I would think that his uh commitment or his, you know, devotion to the Zionist project might actually surpass his prioritizing of election cycles and whatnot. All right, &gt;&gt; CS Coolage, thank you both as always. &gt;&gt; Firmware taking my two pups. My park. See you on the flip side. Katie and Brad. Thank you very very much. Firmware that this is his like fifth or sixth super chat. &gt;&gt; Um, Reverend &gt;&gt; actually wait let's let's pause that. We are going to I'm gonna not to interrupt but I'm going to jump back in. We're going to bring in our next guest and we'll finish the super chats later. So, so excited right now to be bringing back onto the show. Wait, sorry, my blanket fell. It got really cold in my apartment. So, I'll redo that. Okay. See, I'm like a a granny over here. Okay. So excited to bring back onto the show um Anthony Agalar as well as Greg Stoker. They are two anti-war veterans and they each are happen to be running for Congress. Um, and I want to bring them on to talk about what we thought would maybe be um the end of the world. Uh, instead it looks like we got a twoe ceasefire. So now instead of telling us about the end of the world that is uh would have perhaps been in uh unfolding as we spoke, uh we're going to talk about the ceasefire and and maybe the end of the world is still around the corner. Who knows? We'll see. Uh, so welcome back, uh, Greg and Anthony. Hi. How are you? Thank you. Okay, you're both muted. And I should actually probably read, um, because, uh, these things are important. Uh, and I always forget what these things mean. &gt;&gt; Greg, you were a ranger and you worked in um, yeah, you were a ranger, right? Ranger. And um you had a have a background in special operations and human intelligence collection and you conducted four combat deployments to Afghanistan during the unfortunately named global war on terror. And Anthony, you're retired United States Army Lieutenant Colonel and Special Forces Officer Green Beret who served for 25 years in places like Iraq, Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Jordan, the Philippines. and you're the whistleblower who exposed crimes um you witnessed uh with working with the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation and as I said uh Greg is running for Congress to represent Texas's 31st district and uh Anthony uh running for Congress to represent uh North Carolina's 13th which is funny 3113. Anyway, so um I wanted to give that background because I wanted people to know where you're kind of coming from. So So tell people what what just happened? What did Trump just decide and and and why? &gt;&gt; Honestly, it looks like a a new iteration of uh the Cuban missile crisis in so far as JFK accept accepted like an old proposal that withdrew, but Kruev also wanted an off-ramp. So, we're just like, "Okay, we're going to go with it." So, this this like ceasefire proposal, uh, the 10 points, it's not new. It it's been around for a couple weeks. Uh, at least. And, uh, yeah, it it just, uh, goes to show that they wanted an off-ramp and of course, you know, it seems like China has some in some ways been involved in pushing uh, for this as well. And, um, that's kind of where we're at. Um, speaking strictly for that. So, &gt;&gt; I think it's important to understand &gt;&gt; the components of the of the maximalist 15point plan that the Trump administration proposed from the beginning in their claim of accepting nothing but a uh unconditional surrender. And when you look at what those points that were presented to Iran weeks ago um synonymous and simultaneous with Iran's response then with their 10-point plan and to reaffirm Greg's point that this plan that Iran has proposed is not a new uh capitulation mercy offer. This was something that they offered um weeks ago. Uh so so for Donald Trump to reveal it as some hat-tick, look what I pulled out at the last minute is simply disingenuous and and not true, which uh from a consideration of what that means overall, it's it's dangerous because when you have a president that really doesn't have a grip on the strategic end state of a war to this degree, who is also lying by equivocation and disingenuous lies to the American people, we really don't know What's next? Uh I think that the world is scared. If you look at just hours ago, hours ago, China and Russia vetoed the proposal to reopen the the straighter Hermus. So now you have, you know, in the UN Security Council, you have Russia, China, France, United Kingdom, and the US. Russia and China both have vetoed that. uh meaning that that's that's um it's not dead because you don't have to have unanimous in the in the security council. But in this case, they didn't abstain. Uh they voted against it. So um now the trader humus the the opening of that is is not just a negotiation between Donald Trump and the United States and Iran. Uh now China and Russia are both directly involved in that. And for China, well, of course they're going to advocate for that because under the premise of Iran's 10-point plan is that the stra kamus opens up, they control it, $2 million passage um fee, and it's traded in yuan. So for China, thumbs up. For Russia, not as much of a win, but still a win because it really sticks it to the US and it gives them an alternate pathway to petroleum oils and lubricants into Eastern Europe, uh where they control that already. So this is a strategic failure, a strategic defeat for the United States in both of these agreements. So is the United States going to stick with that and accept it as these two weeks go on? Or is there going to be more of this Trumpian false flag, false dilemma, tricked you? We're negotiating now. We're bombing you. Uh we're we're negotiating. Now we're now we're uh sinking your your ship that's coming home from India in a training exercise. Uh we're negotiating now. how we just bombed a girl school in in the knob. You know what's next? I don't trust this administration. &gt;&gt; No, I mean, I've been getting asked for like predictions and stuff, but that also assumes a rational foundation of decision-m which does not seem to be at play at all. And let's talk about the history of Trump even going back to his first presidency when dealing with negotiations with the Iranian state and with organizations like Hamas. Kasum uh Kasim Sulammani was killed under the pretenses of peace talks or diplomacy whatever so was uh Ismile Haneia in Tran itself and uh the failed uh kinetic strike on the Hamas delegation in Qatar. Uh so there's no reason to believe that this is anything from a stalling tactic being like okay well we don't really have a way or out of here an offramp will take uh an old proposal spin a narrative of victory temporarily while we try to do I don't know what another decapitation strike it seems like he still believes or people around him still believe that that's an actual way to affectuate regime change or collapse networks or entities at all. So uh yeah uh I I what we have seen over the past I don't know at least from my perspective the uh prosecution of this quote unquote war in a lot of ways the Israelification of the US military and our our targeting procedures and everything like that. So I do assume that the strikes will continue which means the Iranian reprisals will continue and how nothing in recent history will be uh will will signals to me like this will be a lasting or sustainable ceasefires. Now now my one concern especially about the language that was just used is something that I call in like a lot of my commentary like nuclear option adjacent language. uh you know the destruction of uh civilization unless they capitulate and it's kind of really out of the authoritarian playbook in a lot of ways like shock and awe create polarization uh you know present the opposition party as reactionary ineffective uh like kind of freaking out and overreacting about what the leader says when it's just a negotiation tactic. So, like we may see this as a complete capitulation, but I promise you a lot of people on his side uh are not. &gt;&gt; So, wait, can you can you clarify? You're saying a lot of people on Trump's side &gt;&gt; Oh, yeah. &gt;&gt; Seeing this as what? &gt;&gt; Uh seeing this as the art of the deal. Like if you if you go and look at all of his loyalist accounts on Twitter um and and like True Social and everything, they that's how they're seeing it. So we're we're still at a really polarized place when how we collectively as a society view what the heck just happened here. &gt;&gt; So you're saying some people see this as thank god we're avoiding war, Donald Trump has &gt;&gt; he's unhinged, he's deranged and then the other people are like art of the deal. Uh &gt;&gt; oh, but you're talking about not what he did, not the ceasefire. You're talking about his statement, his his true social statement. all all part of the same thing. Like his his statement was the leverage because right uh the narrative right now is the Iranians who are like really one of the only a rational actors in this right now and that's why they keep coming to the negotiation table to present to the world that they're still a rational actor. Hamas did the same thing &gt;&gt; now. Uh yeah, they're saying that this these maximalist insane like genocide adjacent statements are part of the negotiation tactic because they're it's incredibly orientalizing because that's the only thing the Iranians can understand, right? Uh this use of absolute and overwhelming force. So again, I just wanted to point out that this is a very polarizing topic. We might see it for what it is, but I promise you a lot of people are still drinking the Kool-Aid, &gt;&gt; right? Yeah. I I agree with with Greg that the the the polarization and what I also think is important is to look at Iran's uh near immediate response and I think what what Iran did was was strategically rationally masterful. It they pulled the the Napoleonic does this t-shirt make me look fat on Donald Trump with the the pulling out of oh oh you you have been negotiating with us. &gt;&gt; Okay. Well, if you're going to keep saying it, well, then we're going to go along with it. And as Trump comes up and says, you know, through Pakistan and through his majesty or his excellency, we we have this peace deal. Uh we and Iran is like, well, that's that's not true, but if that's what you say, that's what now you have told the world stage that you've negotiated with us. Well, then I guess you agree to our 10-point terms, right? &gt;&gt; Here it is. And they replastered that on social media to remind everybody, to bring that back up, to remind everybody, your president just said that he's reached a deal and we're negotiating. Here's our terms. So, I guess the president accepts them. And if you look at those 10 terms, that is absolutely a strategic failure for the United States and a win in in diplomacy, in use of information, in a military win, and also in economy. the United States in this war. We have not won tactically. We have not won operationally and we certainly have not only not won but lost strategically. And what I want to remind everybody the the the chess thumping chanters of oh we won. A rescue operation that succeeds is not a tactical nor an operational victory. That is a failure of which operational resources have to then be put into it which then win or lose is still a strategic failure based on the narrative that our aircraft are are are undefeable. So &gt;&gt; that's where we stand right now in this. And if that's the case, if Trump has to eat that, this is a strategic failure in total. If Trump doesn't accept it and says, "Ah, well that's not going to work. You're not you're not negotiating in fairness. We're going to go back to war. This is going to get a lot worse. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um, Greg, I saw you shaking your head. I don't know if it was in &gt;&gt; Oh, no, no. I I was just agreeing and also just like ruminating on how uh well, to Tony's point, how all of these like failure uh episodes are like spun into tales of like behind the lines heroism. Like one of the reasons I bought like the Ranger Kool-Aid was like Blackhawk Down. Not not great, right? Uh, lone survivor, an entire SEAL team eats it. But there are these tales of like against the odd heroism. So, I promise you the propaganda's entertainment and media unit is already shopping for screenplays, &gt;&gt; Uh, of of a story that was super suspect to begin with. &gt;&gt; Uh, but yeah, that's that's the only thing that we're we're getting out of this is a quote unquote victory from something that shouldn't have happened in the first place, &gt;&gt; right? Um, well, I thought we could look at those 10 points again. Um, &gt;&gt; they're so bad. &gt;&gt; Yes, Katie, I just need 30 seconds. &gt;&gt; Okay. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Um, I also have a a question that I'll ask you. Um, well, you you what did you said? The Israelification of the AR of the military. Is that what you said, Greg? Was that the term you used? &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's it's something that I've been talking about since October 2023. Um, &gt;&gt; the Israelification of the military. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Because you know governments especially allied governments yeah &gt;&gt; uh learn from each other and you know that one one one government does something cross a line then the other one government comes and keeps pushing that through uh you know the normalization of uh this kind of warfare this you know shredding of collateral damage officers in the Pentagon uh uh the actual rhetoric of military leaders which I never thought would be coming from uh uh from US officials at least in my lifetime. Uh and the the utter disregard for civilian infrastructure collateral damage. Yes, you could of course a lot of horrible things happened during the global war on terror, but it wasn't this bald-faced. And you know, we used to have to do cover-ups when bombing hospitals. &gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. That's what I think is so right. That's that's the difference, right? Is that like there were or there'll be apology there would be apologies sometimes afterwards, right? Like Israel was never does that. &gt;&gt; Yeah. You know, there was like the HadithA massacre where nobody really did a lot of jail time. Um, like it was kind of covered up, but at least there was the semblance of a trial. Now it's just no holds barred. And this is kind of what warfare is going to look like, the normalization of this kind of stuff going forward. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, let's take a look at these 10 points. Okay. So, um, breaking. Iran has delivered its highly anticipated 10-point response to the US 15-point peace plan. Iran's 10-point peace plan includes guarantee that Iran will not be attacked again, permanent end to the war, not just a ceasefire, end to Israeli strikes in Lebanon, lifting of all US sanctions on Iran, end to all regional fighting against Iranian allies. In return, Iran would open the strait of Hormuz. Iran would impose a Hormuz fee of $2 million per ship. Iran would split these fees with Oman. Iran to provide rules for safe passage through Hormuz. Iran to use Hermus uh fees for reconstruction instead of reparations. Uh President Trump's deadline for a peace deal with Iran is 25 hours away. &gt;&gt; Well, and and just to be clear, Katie, this particular uh post was from yesterday. &gt;&gt; So that's what it says. &gt;&gt; Oh, got it. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Is Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Um so anything uh noteworthy about this that we haven't already discussed? I just since you guys referred to it, I thought &gt;&gt; well I think what's um noteworthy in terms of the math of that Iran 7 um Iran would impose the $2 million that they would then split with um with uh Oman is that that that increase would result in a in a GDP or a gross domestic product for Iran of on average 47 475 billion um to 571 billion. Um, so that's a 20% increase in GDP. Even if they split that with Oman, that is incredible. A at at minimum a 10% increase in GDP overnight. Wow. So when you the reason I say this is a strategic defeat when you think of the the three levels of war or the three levels of government operating in tactical, strategic and or tactical, operational and strategic that when you look at this in terms of what we went into the war for, we're now leaving with conditions that are worse for the United States that you could ever imagine to have going in before. And I I really think it's also where where uh Iran has tied that to Lebanon as well because now that invokes Israel's responsibility and that's the fear in this is is the unhingedness of Donald Trump but now the the absolute syphy and unhingedness of Israel because now they're on the line to have to agree and we all know how Israel is with ceasefires, &gt;&gt; right? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And just one more point like we we essentially it's been such a great uh failure that there was freedom of navigation through the straight of Hormuz and now we've essentially are on the precipice of seeding them their own little uh Suez Canal. &gt;&gt; It's absolutely insane. Um and that's one one concern I do have like will the Israelis accept this? We're starting to see like strategic interests like come apart now uh in some small ways and I think it's in the US national interest which won't happen to uh limit Israel's ability to strike Iran which means withdrawing key assets that they would need uh to include offensive and de defensive weapons to the state itself so they cannot wage these wars or break these ceasefires but of course uh that's not something we can really look forward to &gt;&gt; right um and I'm sorry I I let me show you this other one. Uh Brad, I have this if you don't have it. Okay. So, this this is the newer one. Apologies. I I thought I I had &gt;&gt; Yeah, this is the one that uh the Iran responded with after today. &gt;&gt; Yes. I'm sorry. Yes. So, I'm sorry. And for editing purposes, we'll put this in. Um Okay. Iran's 10 points in its proposed plan to end the war. According to Iran semi-official Tasnim news agency, the United States must in principle commit to guaranteeing non-aggression, continued Iranian control over the Strait of Hormuz, acceptance of uranium and enrichment, removal of all primary sanctions, removal of all secondary sanctions, termination of all UN Security Council resolutions, termination of all International Atomic Energy Agency, IAEA, Board of Governors resolutions, payment of compens compensation to Iran, withdrawal of US combat forces from the region, creation of war, excuse me, well, cessation of war on all fronts, including against the heroic Islamic resistance in Lebanon. Nothing about Palestine, though. &gt;&gt; I I think they kind of include that in their cessation of all wars. &gt;&gt; Oh, &gt;&gt; because they they have mentioned it before, but if you were to list out all of the wars that you're fighting, you would have a you would have a 40point plan. So, Exactly. I think they just wrapped that up into point 10, but I think that Iran is still very committed to the aspect of Palestine. &gt;&gt; That is pretty incredible though. I mean, the removal of primary can they I want too bad they can't get Cuba in there sanctions removed. But yeah, &gt;&gt; and I would just like to point out that these this war is going to continue because if Iran does not back down from this position, this will be completely unacceptable. And I would just like to highlight that point by the conduct of the Democrat as an establishment entity going forward. So first of all, one of the reasons why nobody on either side of the aisle and why it kept getting pushed back again and again on a war powers resolution is because they didn't want to get locked into a vote. The Democratic uh position is very much wait and see. They all they have all of these imperial objectives. They had this with Venezuela like just waiting on the sidelines. if you know if we have a blackhawk down situation in Caracus or wherever they uh went into and it was a disaster they would use that in the midterms you know and Democratic operatives have been talking about this for years you know the establishment Hillary Clinton said she was going to go to war with Iran Harris said Iran was our greatest adversary uh you know and she's just as much entrenched with Israel and that kind of ideology and in the imperial ideology as anybody else so the Democrats basically wait they condemn certain language They're like, "Hey, saying destroying a civilization is bad. That sounds like a war crime." But they're all on recess. They're not doing anything functionally to stop any of this. And what they're going to do now because they wanted a war with Iran as an establishment. Uh they just didn't want the political fallout. They're in a really, you know, cynical position right now where they're going to use this 10-point plan to be like, "Look at this disastrous war. Uh, you know, we still supported military action against Iran. didn't do anything to stop it. Uh but now he's lost the straight of [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] We no longer control it. That's a disaster for the war uh the world economy and they're already doing it. Chris Murphy, senator, &gt;&gt; well statement. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Let's take a look at Chris Murphy on CNN. And Chris Murphy's one of the when it comes to Palestine at least was one of the be I mean in quotes better &gt;&gt; but like what' you say Greg? &gt;&gt; Low bar, but yeah. &gt;&gt; Well, extremely low bar, but I mean come on. This is humiliating. So here's Chris Murphy on uh talking to Aaron Bernett on CNN &gt;&gt; out here one the safe passage that Trump is saying is going to be provided for two weeks as part of this kind of the central part of it through Hormuz they're saying is possible via coordination with Iran's armed forces which obviously implies that Iran controls the strait and then from the national security council they say this confers upon Iran a unique geopolitical economic and geopolitical standing in terms of uh them regulating passage through the straight of Hormuz. So, what do you hear in all this? &gt;&gt; I mean, listen, who knows what's going on. Donald Trump lies every single day. Clearly, he's not telling the truth. But if you accept even part of the Iranian statement, Donald Trump has agreed to give Iran control of the Strait of Hormuz, that is extraordinary. If you go deeper into the statement from the Iranian National Security Council, they claim that Trump has also agreed to Iran's right to enrichment to suspend all sanctions against Iran and to allow Iran to keep their missile program, their drone program, and their nuclear program. Now, who knows if any of that is true, but if at the very least this agreement gives Iran the right to control the strait, that is cataclysmic for the world. And it is just stunning that that's where we have gotten to. That Donald Trump took a military action that has apparently, at least for the time being, given Iran control over a critical waterway that they did not have control over before the war began. So, it just doesn't sound like there's actually an agreement because what Trump is saying is totally different than what the Iranians are saying. But if Iran has the strait permanently now, what what an error, what a miscalculation this entire endeavor was. &gt;&gt; Okay, you guys go. I'm too upset to even respond to her right now. &gt;&gt; I mean, when I when I he he echoed some of the things that Greg and I have been talking about. And one point, you we can't trust our president. That's that's frightening. two, uh, the the proposal, you know, this what this situation today reminds me of is the old Dave Chappelle skit when when keeping it real goes wrong because this brinksmanship that MAGA likes to say about Donald Trump where hey, he keeps it real, he just says it straight. Okay. Well, keeping it real and saying it straight has now got us into a position that that is either strategic failure or enter into the quagmire to save face which will only then lead to strategic failure not in this presidency but the next or maybe even the next. I mean we were in Iran or excuse me in Iraq for over over I mean we're still in Iraq under the same authorization of the use of military force that was used in 2002 to to to approve the 2003 invasion. I think people lose track of that that that can wars last for for a really long time. They they can. Vietnam, Iraq, Afghanistan, the Philippines. We're still in the Southern Philippines fighting the Moral Islamic Liberation Front from the 1950s. So, can this be a forever war? It absolutely can. And it has all the ingredients. And do I trust Donald Trump and Pete Hexath to navigate our way out of this? No. Donald Trump shot himself in the foot. and trying to fix it in the dark. He's putting the bandage around his neck and he's still bleeding out and he has no recourse other than to to go all in now or accept accept this fate. And again, I think it was it was masterful by Iran in this Trump position of hey, we're negotiating. We're negotiating and we're negotiating and now coming off of this last minute Armageddon which is untenable and unrealistic and psycho and Iran knows that. So Iran called the bluff and said, "Okay, well I guess bring it. Bring it on." And Trump at the last minute was like, "Oh, okay. We're negotiating. We we're we're negotiating based on what Iran has proposed as a basis for negotiation." And then Iran comes back with, "Okay, well, here it is. This is what you accept." And it's it's it's a pretty hard pill to swallow. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, I was like, where does who uh where does Chris uh Murphy think the straightest of her moves are? Like, uh does he think they're in uh the United States? Like the he seems upset that Iran gets to first of all, they're not closed. Like, I mean, every person, every political and media leak keeps talking about this. It is so Americentric. It's like literally like when people used to think that uh the uh earth went that the sun went around the earth, right? It's like no, that's not the reality. It is open to many people and ships. It's not open to uh the ships that are trying to uh basically decimate a population and destroy a civilization. I mean, it's unbelievable to me. And what does Murphy want? Why isn't Murphy saying, "Thank God this was avoided." Like, where's the relief about that? He It's so He so doesn't he wants to own the Republicans and own MAGA that badly that he can't even acknowledge that maybe it's good that like there wasn't a civilizational war. I mean, at his core, you know, he's still like a like arch arch neoliberal who basically sees, you know, the US's responsibility as an imperial navy to um ensure freedom of navigation. And, you know, he's not really mentioning that we're we're one of the only countries that doesn't really have freedom of navigation throughout the entire straight as well. So, um you know, there's a I don't know what his private thoughts are, but that's basically the narrative that we're going to be looking at. going into the midterms uh you know like &gt;&gt; uh like we're not really condemning the war but look how Trump bungled it. We no longer have regional hegemony in West Asia. Like what does that mean for us &gt;&gt; in in the Middle East? They're not going to say West Asia. &gt;&gt; Oh yeah, of course. That'd be hilarious. Yeah, that'd be hilarious. But yeah, it's like the Vietnam War. Oh, it was a great idea. It just wasn't executed the right way. &gt;&gt; Similar framing, right? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. You're going to see some of that like we lo we we won every battle. We destroyed an archaic navy and an archaic air force which they didn't really even intend to use and knew that they couldn't have like a pure competition with. Uh but yes, uh it's going to be a lot of that and a lot of cope that's already happening. And also, it's interesting because it makes sense that um Bernett would would have that elicit that response because on the Sunday news shows, we kept seeing like Kristen Welker on Meet the Press was like, "Wait, are you going to actually you you're not going to end the war before the Strait of Hormuz is reopened, are you?" Like the media was so indignant about the possibility of a cessation uh unless the Strait of Hormuz was open to the United States. Again, it's not open or closed. It's a question of to whom. Um, but I actually on a related note since we're talking about Israel, um, Rev the Reverend had a question. Question. Isn't the problem if Israel is overrun they will invoke the Samson doctrine and use the nuclear weapons held in the negv? Everyone remember to hit like and support button. Oh, that's true. And become patreons. Thank you, Rev. But that is something I keep wanting to know like how much uh how how much could the United States defang Israel? Like is there I I honestly don't know the answer to this and I I keep asking it like could Israel just go nuclear? Is there nothing the United States could do? Is the United States like do they if they cut off Israel they are they uh conditioned aid or condition something would Israel even cooperate? What are we dealing with here? If you are watching this live you are so in luck because you got to see that whole show. And if you're watching this later and you want to see the full thing as well as the amazing kneecap uh video, then please do join us at patreon.com/thekatyhelper patreon.com/thekatiehelper show. Uh let's see. Brad, what was the last thing that you read in the super chats? Uh I Oh, I know because it was the I got it. Okay. Stopping in to say these two are unshakable momentous figures in the west. Praise be to you both. Thank you, O Bleach. Thank you so much for that generous super chat. Uh thank you Ezekiel Bones for that super chat. Uh I agree there's nothing new under the sun except that is for the inspiration encouragement we receive and count on from truth tellers truth tellers like you too. Thank you CS Koolage. Um uh seven dust secretary of transportation Norman Manetta testified that Cheney got updates every two minutes on the first gen Reaper drone that hit Pentagon. Oh yeah. Oh man, I should have asked him about that next time. Um, of course we know Iraq has chemical weapons. We have the receipts. George Will, January 2003. Yeah, George Will, the great uh what we call him neocon pundit. Um, Michael writes, "So much value is attached to every word. Mr. Finkelestein says, "We're here for it." Yes, it's actually doctor because PhD, but I'm sure he'd be fine with that. Uh, super sticker from Aliona Kazaka. Thank you so much. Uh CM Cordderero says, "Thank you, Norman." Wadeworth, oh my gosh, thank you so much for that generosity, Wadeworth. Um, thank you so much, Salano. Uh, but Katie, what about the 400 uh what what 4 million protesters that died? I think that's a reference to the Um, and uh, thank you for that. And we hit Tokyo on March 45 10 uh, B. What is that? Um, what's 10, Brad? What does that say, Brad? &gt;&gt; Sorry, Katie. Uh, I think and don't &gt;&gt; like is that not squared, but like &gt;&gt; I I think that this is a math. Uh, &gt;&gt; right. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And I am not smart enough. &gt;&gt; I thought you knew that stuff like that. Sorry. Okay. If anyone knows, let us know because we're &gt;&gt; 10 to the power of five. Thank you. &gt;&gt; That's what I was thinking. That's what I was saying. That's why I said to the &gt;&gt; No, but I know, but like what is that? &gt;&gt; Oh, I see. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I couldn't even figure out how to read it yet. &gt;&gt; Firmware says 100,000. &gt;&gt; Oh, there you go. Wow. Uh, well, yes, I that was a terrible thing. I mean, sorry, I kind of buried the lead there, which is that Tokyo in March and why Hiroshima Nagasaki &gt;&gt; to use I guess to just show the world. I mean, a big part of why we did that apparently is is to scare the Soviet Union was to scare the Soviet Union. Uh, if you live in North Carol Okay, we got that. Please read the article in Covert Mag Action Magazine about Anthony Aguilar. Okay, we'll do that. And um, great effing show. Thank you. Well, thank you. Um, let's see. Anything else we want to to say or talk about? Uh, dang. I keep I keep I really like when we get patreons during the actual show. We got more than this last week, but I'm very appreciative to to the people we already got. Um, and um, thank you all so much. Um, this was great and uh, it was really a relief and it was kind of amazing to watch Samir respond in real time. &gt;&gt; React in real time. &gt;&gt; That that was great. And I just wanted to uh, pull this up for you Katie. One &gt;&gt; And that Peter I mean sorry that um, what's his name? Um, Chris Murphy. That's so pathetic. Wasn't that so pathetic? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I did some digging in the historic historical archives after listening to uh Anthony uh a little while ago and uh found this here from the old truth social archives. Harry S. Truman, Japan better surrender. Thank you for attention. It's That's funny. It's net to this matter. That's very funny. &gt;&gt; August 6, 1945 on Truth Social. &gt;&gt; All right. Well, anything else that I need to remember to tell people? &gt;&gt; I think we're good, right? &gt;&gt; No. Thank you everyone for &gt;&gt; for being here. This was a great uh &gt;&gt; Nile Flanigan. Uh you're not wrong. N &gt;&gt; what? Someone asked, "How do I super chat?" Someone sent a Patreon on that. Well, you can just if you're a Patreon, uh, put in the chat, I guess, Patreon, and then I'll read it like a super chat. That makes sense, right? &gt;&gt; I think that makes sense. Yes. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Just do P pat all caps. Yeah. Then we'll have to check if you're really in there. I'm just going to kind of All right. Thank you so much. &gt;&gt; Nile's not wrong. &gt;&gt; Oh, Brad. Oh, no. I feel like Bradley needs a hug. All right. We'll get we'll get uh this is funny. Chris Murphy's law. Philip always has the best comments. What did Philip did? Oh, Central casting. He Yeah. Um, &gt;&gt; everyone give people hugs if you think that they need hugs. &gt;&gt; Um, but I guess you should ask if you don't know them. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. That would be so funny and weird. Um, okay. So, uh, oh, someone wrote what Truman actually said was worse. Yeah. Like he did say pretty offensive things. Um, yeah. &gt;&gt; Doing my best to make a joke, but yeah, &gt;&gt; it's just all not &gt;&gt; the reality. &gt;&gt; Oh, I know. Here, if you if you guys need to pick me up. One second. &gt;&gt; Oh, okay. Well, this is the the the go-to the never fail little jolt of serotonin. If if this if he is willing to uh cooperate, it's well a &gt;&gt; Bucky. Isn't he so cute? &gt;&gt; Yeah. And he's &gt;&gt; hyper. &gt;&gt; Well, I was saying this is all dependent on if he wants to cooperate. &gt;&gt; Bucky. The thing that's funny about Bucky is he's like really hyper but also will just stay in bed all day. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, &gt;&gt; you don't have to wake up early for him. &gt;&gt; You It really It's moment to moment. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And Brad knows because Brad gets to um babysit him. &gt;&gt; But I I just It never ceases to make me chuckle. &gt;&gt; Just this kind of the blank look when you have him facing the camera and his paws are just and he's just kind of like, "What the hell is going on?" &gt;&gt; Sucks. &gt;&gt; How does it compare to Bod's face? Oh, well that's that that's apples and oranges there. &gt;&gt; Yeah, Bod's like a star. Bod's like a plus-siz model. All right. Oh my god, he's so cute. He wants to go out again. Okay. Thank you guys so much. And I'm very happy about the this this ceasefire. I mean, I'm trying not to be too uh &gt;&gt; No, like I told you earlier, Katie, like this is the best worst case scenario. &gt;&gt; Exactly. Yeah. &gt;&gt; It would seem. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um All right. &gt;&gt; Yay. Yay for now. &gt;&gt; Yay for now. Yeah. Thank you, Brad. Thank you, Nate. Thank you, Charlotte. Thank you, uh, Phantom Miss Phantom for the clip. Thank you, Ryan, for the um, uh, kneecap thing, which you guys can look forward to. Also, you can look forward to a really good interview with um Jeremy Corbin about Cuba. But yeah, that is that that's a great teaser um of the of the uh kneecap, but they do get into very substantive political analysis, too. So, we're excited about that. Edit. Bye, everyone. Antifa