# YouTube Video yVIzipcWv-s

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yVIzipcWv-s
**字数：** 358 词

---

Myanmar's elections are only happening in parts of the country that the military control and some estimates say that could be as little as 30%. Millions of people are going to be disenfranchised. But what's it like in the rest of the country? Often remote areas where there is no military control and there's often armed struggle on a daily basis. Nearly every house in Myanmar now has one of these, an air raid shelter, because people are terrified of attack from the air. Usually they're outside, but some people for extra protection have put them inside, and usually they're not being used. But for some people, it provides the perfect opportunity to hide away for a couple of hours and watch your iPad. Bill Clinton famously said of elections, "It's the economy, stupid." And if that was true in Myanmar, the generals would be in real trouble. Inflation has gone crazy since the military coup. A basic essential like fuel has gone up five times. And basic food stuffs have gone up even more, particularly those that are imported from outside. Something as simple as noodles has gone up from 10 cents to a whole dollar. &gt;&gt; We just had a report that there are three fighter jets in the air heading towards this direction. We've had a lot of military activity this morning. Several howitzers fired close by, mortars coming into the vicinity of this area. And to give you a sense of just how this is happening all over the country, uh not too far away from here, a,000lb bomb was dropped on a village that we were in yesterday, killing one man. And in Rakine State, they bombed a hospital, killing 31 people. If you live in the countryside in Myanmar, outside of areas that the military controls, the nighttime looks like this. Almost complete and utter pitch black. If people put on lights, they do it very briefly and very sparingly. And that's because light invites air strikes. &gt;&gt; Don't miss out and [music] get the full picture. Subscribe to El Jazzer for reliable news and expert [music] insights. Like, share, stay ahead.