# YouTube Video xHD3VqcCEE0

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xHD3VqcCEE0
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 2072 词

---

Our next story here, which is Sudan's devastating civil war, which is now entering its fourth year fighting between the Sudin armed forces and the rapid support forces is intensifying and the humanitarian crisis only continues to deepen. And we are joined here by journalist Ishmael Kushkus to discuss where things stand in the conflict and how the war happening in West Asia is further affecting what is happening in Sudan. Ishmael, thank you so much for being with us. Thanks for having me. &gt;&gt; Well, great to have you here. And you know, I think one of the things that I've there was a lot of chatter about uh you know, on the internet is is whether or not you know, the impact of of the war in West Asia on UAE would slow down the war in Sudan or perhaps start to bring it to a close. But it does continue to be, you know, raging in a number of different fronts across the country and of course the US now adding different sanctions on part of the coalition around the Sudin armed forces. So I mean give us a sense of of what you where the conflict is right now and and maybe just uh a little bit on some of those points about how you think the regional situation is affecting it. So at the moment I'd say that the the conflict in Sudan is at something of a a scalement. The Sudanese armed forces, the Sudin army which is the de facto government um controls most of the north center and eastern part of the country. um the rapid support forces which created this parallel government in the western part of the country and was able to ally itself with different forces including the Sunnis people's liberation movement north which was is based in the southern part of the country in in the Nuba mountains. So yeah, the the the government has been trying to relocate from uh back to Kartum and uh there are Sudanis that have been returning, but I would say it really is something of a stalement at at the moment. Um efforts to get uh negotiations, talks between both sides really haven't uh worked out um at the moment. So I want to ask you given that there's this overarching war the US and the Israelis launched on Iran that has obviously had a huge impact on the Arab Gulf spa states first and foremost the UAE and I raised that because the we know the UAE is one of the primary backers of the RSS and I'm curious how the war on Iran and the cascading impacts of that uh specifically onto the Gulf States given their role in the Sudin war. I'm wondering if any of that has had an impact on the war in Sudan. &gt;&gt; Right. The war has definitely had an impact um economically, socially, uh politically. Um let me let me just start uh e economically. I mean the impact um on Sudan like everywhere else in the world with oil prices. I mean with the situation of war in Sudan, the availability of oil gasoline was already a problem and now the prices have skyroed and with with with that the prices of food um in areas that um that you know have some access to that um the socially um large there are large communities of Sudanis in in the Arab Gulf countries Saudi Arabia, UAE, OMA Kuwait and Sudan familying heavily on the remnantes of of of those families that are based in the Gulf. Um the future of those remittances I think is really under threat because life in the in the Gulf and and the kind of work that that is going to be an issue. Um the I think with with with with the impact of the war politically I think you have to look at it from from all sides the impact on the UAE but also the u Iran's connection with with the Sudan army and the Sudan government um um on the one hand um the Sudan army um and which is again the de facto government um has been dependent on Iran as one source of of of of for weapons um along with other other governments. Um I think that is going to have an impact. Um the official position of the Selenia's army government has been something of uh you know a neutral um it does have good connections with Saudi Arabia with with Egypt. uh has been critical of of uh Iran's uh attack on on the Persian Gulf countries. Uh but at the same time, it hasn't really fully condemned uh the Iranian government. Now, the impact on the UAE um could have some impact on its support for for the RSF. Um I think that will also um we'll see that how how that plays out. Um it it the the other thing that I think uh that is um a a new factor that that may be playing in in how things play out in Sudan is is the u designation of the Sudanese Muslim Brotherhood as a uh sponsor of terrorism by by the Trump administration. This is about two days ago. Um the impact of that being that the Basher government that came down with the Sudan revolution in 2019 um is still members of that government the the uh are are believed to still have wide uh connections and and impact on on the Sudan army. if um the the this designation uh and it likely will have some impact on the financial ability of of of those members and and their connection to the army. I think that is definitely going to have some some say in how how this war uh plays out. Um the another issue I think also is if this war um goes to the Red Sea. Uh Sudan has a coast of of 700 miles on the Red Sea. Um Iran has allies in in the Houthis in in Yemen. Um does that play out uh in the Red Sea? I think that's also another factor to look out for. You know, one other issue that I'm curious your thoughts on Ishmael is one that's been discussed in the past few days is what the potential impact could be of the integration between the joint forces from Darur and the Sudin armed forces and whether or not that might create um you know more friction perhaps between different elements of the uh the coalition backing the deacto government and of course has deep implications visav uh sort of the demographics of the country and any settlement um as well of the conflict in the future. Well, the the government in Port Sudan, I mean, essentially is is something of an alliance at the moment that includes those joint forces. join forces are an um alliance of therefore rebel groups. um as matters unfold and as that that the government that de facto government um tries to articulate some sort of normaly um and and return of governance the rivalry between different factions on who gets what in in government I think will start to play out and and that's where I think you might see some um divisions um do the joint force choices, what to get what positions in in in in government. Um, also, I mean, there there's been a lot of rhetoric on how far will the Sudan armed forces go in in this war. Um, will it, you know, go all the way to fight in in Darur? Um, of course, for the the joint forces, that that that is a key issue. These are these are forces that um have their base in in Darur, the Darur rebel groups. Um there there have been again the official position of the of the army is that it will you know keep on fighting to um against the rapid support forces to reclaim the entire country. Um there have been questions raised here and there. Um is that the position of everyone in the army? Um so I think that's that keeping that coalition I think is going to be interesting and then also again with with the as I mentioned the designation of of the Sunnis Muslim Brotherhood as a terrorist organization um you know right or wrong you know that that's a different matter but how does that play out politically uh with with the army um uh and you know what kind who uh is kept who is dismissed I think all of that uh um is going to start to play out in in the coming weeks and months. &gt;&gt; I'm actually curious, you know, as I was kind of reading up on on um developments in Sudan uh more recently, um there was a report today that there was this drone attack from Sudan that killed 17 people in Chad. Um so that meaning like the war that war is spilling over into the border and the RSF denied it was them. The Sudin army denied it was them. I'm just curious um if you have any comments or thoughts on that particular development. &gt;&gt; I think it it was very much expected that the you know part aspects of this war are are going to go into neighboring countries whether they be Chad or Ethiopia. Um we we know that the RSF has strong links with with the Chadian government um as it does with with Ethiopia. um and and the rebel movements that are connected to um in both countries like the Tigray liber liberation movement uh uh the TPF the Tigray people's liberation front in Ethiopia and his connections with the Sudan um army and uh on the Chadian side uh the rapid support forces and its connection um with with the Chadian government um I I think it is it is it it it was expected that you know these things are going to uh spill in in into neighboring countries um and make matters even much more messier. &gt;&gt; You know just before you touched on it but before uh uh we close here I did want to also just speak a little bit more about the nature of the humanitarian crisis in Sudan which is is is very intense. um you know some say the worst in the world but if you could just say a little bit more about the situation as the war develops for people on the ground uh who are who are caught in it &gt;&gt; right so I mean this is three years of of of conflict the the largest displacement population in the world over 12 million people have been displaced um the famine-like conditions have been declared in in in in parts of of of the country um the estimate of of those that have uh been killed, died because of the conflict are as high as 400,000 now. Um so it it it is a a conflict that hasn't received the attention that that is it deserves. It is undoubtedly the worst humanitarian crisis on the planet um at at the moment. um this idea of of trying to bring back life to um a normal to to back to normal um uh I mean when you think that you know agriculture in the country has been disrupted for three years um widespread diseases uh um and and with the cuts in funding to international aid um uh by the US and and and by other governments and and attention that is being paid to other conflicts in the world. Um I this this is Sudanis feel that they're they're on their own um and dealing with with a huge crisis. Um and u it it it's it again it's you know it's been called the the forgotten war and and that's for a reason that it just hasn't received the type of attention that it deserves. Well, we are really grateful to you for bringing some attention to this and helping us sort through it all and we will do our best to continue to cover it. Journalist Ishmael Kushkus, thank you so much for joining us here on the Freedom Side. &gt;&gt; Thank you for having me.