# YouTube Video 5-Lanu_I9AY

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5-Lanu_I9AY
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 3380 词

---

on this the April 8th, 2026 edition of What's Going On with Shipping. Where are the ships? I'm your host, Sal Maglaniano, and welcome to today's episode. Holy crap, this has been a day. I mean, I I can't Oh, so real quick recap. Started out last night with the idea of the ceasefire. Got through maybe the morning until it went to hell very quickly. And and I was watching marine traffic all night. Happened in the middle of the night a couple of times just to scroll to see if any ships are going through. Oh. Oh, this is this is first off so much information out there. Good, bad, freaking knows. Let's break this down. Talk about what is happening currently in the Straight of Hormuz. What was said by the United States? What's being said by Iran? And then physically, what's going on? Because again, that's the real bread and butter of this situation. Our ships moving. Has the straight been open? Let's talk about this. First, let's go over to Secretary Hegsath over the Pentagon for his morning brief and what he said specifically about the straight of moves. &gt;&gt; As far as the straight, uh you saw the initial agreement that was struck, which is uh Iran's letting ships go through. So, they'll be that that will be happening. They will be sailing. And ultimately, as as the president, we've done an incredible job uh militarily inside the Straight of Hormuz. what Admiral Cooper I failed to mention Admiral Cooper's name. Uh he's done a phenomenal job along with everybody at Absent and Absent and Aent and all all the components down there laying the groundwork for uh Iran. Iran doesn't have the same ability to defend it the way they did before. And so as the president has pointed out to the rest of the world, we we barely get any of our energy out of the street, just a tiny fraction. Uh it's time for the rest of the world to step up and ensure that uh that stays open after President Trump and the War Department brought Iran to the place where they are voluntarily opening it right now as was announced last night. All right, two things in that statement by Secretary Hegith. Number one, so the focus is the degradation of the Iranian military, which there's no question about that. I mean, the Iranian military has been hit very hard. Their navy has been absolutely, you know, devastated. However, the Iranian military regarding the Straight of Hormuz is going against defenseless merchant ships. You don't need a very strong military to do that. You need a couple of drones to do that. That's enough to keep everything locked up in the Straight of Hormuz. Different when you're going against the US Navy, the military, that's different against merchant ships. They are going to lock in place because they are afraid of surface and aerial drones and missiles and mines and everything. If you want example number one, go look at the Houthi and the Red Sea. Still don't have traffic back up to pre 2023 levels in the Red Sea based on the Houthi attacks. And the Houthi haven't attacked anything since September of last year. That's the problem I have with that. Second, Secretary Hegth uses a phrase by the administration. It's used all the time by people. We don't get anything but a fraction out of the Persian Gulf. All right. This is the EIA. This is the Energy Information Administration's website. 2025 out of the Persian Gulf million not thousand million barrels of oil come out that is 8 and a half% of all the oil we import out of the 2.9 billion barrels that we import totally so that is significant give you an idea million barrels a VLCC a very large crude carrier carries 2 million barrels so you're talking about 120 super tankers worth of oil we get from the Persian Gulf. Now, in the grand scheme of things, yeah, it's not a lot. But the other problem is this. What doesn't come out of the Persian Gulf for the rest of the world has got to be made up from other places. That puts the US on a global commodities market exchange, which means US oil, US uh gasoline, US diesel, US helium, US fertilizer, US aluminum, US sulfur, everything that comes out of the Persian Gulf is now going to be worth more on the global market, and that's going to raise prices in the United States. So, this argument that we don't get a lot out is is really not a good one. I'll add one other thing, too, that the that Secretary Heget said, the rest of the world has got to step up. We had the meeting over in England with the prime minister talking about bringing navies together about opening the straight of Hormuz escorting vessels. I think this is really important because if you follow what Iran is saying they're talking about formalizing and making permanent their control over the straight of Hormuz which we're going to discuss here in a second. &gt;&gt; Iran has said that safe passage through the straight of horm will be possible in coordination with Iran's armed forces and quote technical limitations. What do you believe that means? &gt;&gt; What has been agreed to? What's been stated is the straight is open. Uh our military is watching. I'm sure their military is watching, but commerce will flow. Uh and that's what you saw the markets react to is that reality. That last hint by the secretary I think is the key one. The markets were watching this. You watched oil drop. I mean off a cliff drop because of the announcement of the ci ceasefire. I think that is a very key thing because right now April 8th is right around the day that tankers are not going to be arriving in Europe in Australia in North and South America that were supposed to be arriving and we're going to see that impact. The fact that they're not showing up is going to have a massive hit and we're about to feel that right now. And I think that's one of the reasons why they were so adamant about trying to get this ceasefire in place and force Iran kind of to the table. Now, what we know is that ceasefire has completely fallen apart. So, if the ceasefire had held, one of the things you kind of would expected was a Black Friday uh impact where ships just start heading to the straight of Hormuz to head out. But that's not what happened. Instead, what we saw was this story from over at Lloyd's list. The ship owners and charters are preparing to move after the US Iran agree ceasefire. So several ship owners were planning for swift exits from what the Lloyds list calls the Middle East Gulf, Persian Gulf, Arabian Gulf, whatever you want to call it. Industry security officials warned that moving before the new protocols are clarified could expose crews, ships, and cargos to heighten risk. No one's going to go until they're exactly sure what's going to happen. And despite the political announcements, Iran's control over Hormuz's traffic, including documentation checks pre-arrival in IRGC, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps escorted transits, is causing industry hesitation and delaying immediate movement. You get this subsequent story by Richard Meade. Shipping seeks clarity over the Tan toll booth requirements for Hormuzu's safe passage. Ships with diplomatic agreements in place still require Iranian vetting, but any other vessel is expected to be asked to pay a toll. Operators report confusion over how fees are collected with payments previously routed via crypto and yuan and uncertainty over who ultimately bears the cost. European governments and ship owners are seeking clarity as Iran warns any vessel transiting without permission risk military attack. Then we get this story. Just three vessels have crossed the straight since Wednesday. We're going to look at that. Priority will go to trap ships leaving if the straight reopens, but operators will be looking more than two weeks ahead. According to industry group BIMCO, ships could leave without loading cargo first if it means getting out in time. I mean, they're just waiting to get the hell out of dodge. All right, let's take a look at the data because that's what matters more than anything else. So, here it is. Hit this is marine traffic showing you the vessels that are coming out. And real quick, what you're seeing is several bulk vessels coming out now. NJ Earth, uh, Iclos Destiny, New Ambition, Highong One. Those vessels, and some of them are all basically being routed out of Iranian ports, either out of Bandar Abbis here or further up the Gulf. Take you back 24 hours. This is the replay feature here on Marine Traffic. I'm going to show you part of the replay feature. So what you see is four tankers inbound into the Persian Gulf. A lot of these are heading up to Iranian ports here. So the Charar, the Patunia, the Petrol, the Yuri. These are vessels that have come through the toll booth right here between Kisham and Laric Island and are now heading up the Gulf. Here come a couple of vessels on the outbound. The Tour 2, which is a tanker. It's actually going to come up here to Bandar Abbis and stay there. And there's the NJ Earth coming out and the couple other ships heading through the toll booth. So once again, what we're seeing here is a lot of control being exercised by the Iranians. We're not seeing the free motion. We had a ship here, the Aurora trying to come out through the Omani channel, but basically sits there and doesn't come out. So there's no free flow. And again, to show you a key aspect here, reset this. This is the nautical channel. This is the main transit point through the channel. This is where you come in and out of the straight of Hormuz. Coming up here, you're in the territorial waters of Iran. And a lot of people are talking about this, the how Iran controls the straight of Hormuz. You'll see that the bulk of the straight of Hormuz is not in Iranian waters. It's actually here in Omani waters. So, it's Oman that controls it. I think it's a really key point. There are two provisions under the UN convention of the law of the sea 1982. Now Iran has not ratified unclause, neither is US, but the 1958 treaty that precedes it basically says the same exact thing. And what you see in UNCCL clause is this article 44 duties of states bordering straits. States bordering straits shall not hamper transit passes and shall give appropriate publicity to any dangers to navigation or overflight within or over the straight on which they have knowledged. There shall be no suspension of transit passages. I don't think it gets any kind of clearer than that right there that Iran has no authority whatsoever to restrict that. And if that's not enough, Article 19 guarantees innocent passage. passage is innocent as long as it's not prejuditial to the peace, good order, or security of the coastal state. If you have a tanker heading to Iraq, to Kuwait, to Bahrain, to to Qatar, to Saudi Arabia, to the UAE, that's not impinging on Iran at all. They cannot technically under international law stop that from happening. So, what we're seeing here is basically the same level of transits than we'd seen in the past. The latest joint maritime information center report on 7 April has the data prior to that. Normally we're seeing 138 ships go through per day. On April 5th there were eight transits. On April 6th there were 10 transits. So four cargo vessels. On five April, two inbound, two outbound. On 6th April, three cargo ships made it. All three of them were heading outbound. On five April four tankers, three outbound, one inbound. And on sixth April, seven tankers, four inbound and three outbound. So again, we're just seeing a minor tick here in the number of ships. We're in double digits, but barely. We're in, you know, 10, 11, maybe we're in the teens, but nowhere near the level of ships that we had been seeing happening before. And the scary thing is that the Trump administration seems willing to kind of give in to Iranian demand. So, there was a a Financial Times story earlier today that came out that was really the most disturbing story I think I read all day that along with the New York Times one that talked about how the planning for the the operation didn't really factor in the Straight of Hormuz because what they looked at was back in June of 2025 there was almost a negligible drop in transits through the straight of Hormuz back in June because they said listen this is a short operation it'll be another short operation ation we're going to do and what we'll see is a dip like they saw back in June of 2025 and there's going to be no appreciable drop. That doesn't happen. But the Financial Times story was the one that really struck me. So here's a couple of key passages from that story. Iran will demand that shipping companies pay tolls in cryptocurrency to transit through. According to Hamid Hassini, the spokesman for Iran's oil, gas, and petrochemicals products export union, uh Iran wanted to collect toll fees from any tanker. Iran needs to monitor what goes in and out of the straight to ensure these two weeks aren't used for transferring weapons. Everything can pass through, but the procedure will take time for each vessel. And Iran is not in a rush. This is exactly what Russia did to Ukraine in the Black Sea. This is where we got the Black Sea grain initiative. You know, Iran trying to control the import and export of goods in and out of the Persian Gulf. Story goes on. Decisions on the conditions for passing a straight are taken by Iran's Supreme National Security Council. Husini said that each tanker must email authorities about its cargo, after which Iran will inform them of the toll to be paid in digital currencies. Tariff is $1 per barrel of oil. Once the email arrives and Iran completes its assessment, vessels are given a few seconds to pay in bitcoins, ensuring they can't be traced or confiscated due to sanctions. Okay, this is We can use the word extortion. Uh we can use the word toll. But again, Panama and Suez provide services. This is not services. This is tribute. The US Navy fought a couple wars over the issue of you know you know not one cent for you know for tribute, millions for defense. Fought a war against France, the XYZ war, the quasi war. We fought a war against the Barbarie states Tripoli. Uh yet here is Iran doing literally the same exact thing but on a global scale. goes on, tankers in the Gulf on Wednesday received a radio broadcast that warned they would be targeted with military strikes unless they first gained approval from Iranian authorities. So, we had President Trump, we had the spokesman for the White House, we had Secretary Hegsth all say that the straight is open. Yet, this is the live image of marine traffic and just a handful of vessels coming out. Yet, many ships trace their origination to Iranian ports and heading out. So again, be careful of what's being said out there. Again, look at the data. It's it's easy to do. Go to marine traffic. You can do it. Are ships spoofing AIS? Spoofing is down quite a bit. So, we're not seeing the jamming out there that we saw. Are ships operating dark on AS AIS? Yes, they are. We know ships are riding dark. However, they do pop up once they hit the Gulf of Oman and Joint Maritime Information Center and others are looking at that data when ships appear. One of the interesting things right now, what Iran is doing right now is loading tankers in Car Island in the Persian Gulf, sailing them through the straight of Hormuz, and then prepositioning them outside the straight of Hormuz along the Gulf of Oman, waiting to sail to replenish. Again, this is a everdeveloping story. And this is going to change come tomorrow. I know that it's it's going to do, but I want to get the video out. I'm glad I didn't make it this morning cuz all of this would have been Obbe uh by the you know, overcome by events if I had published. So, I hope you got something out of this video. I'm not going to say enjoy this video because this is not an enjoyable time. It really isn't. I'm still thinking about those merchant mariners stuck on the thousand ships inside the Persian Gulf. 20,000 merchant mariners stuck for for now going on over 40 days. Uh, this is a long laborious effort right now and and getting those ships out is got to be a priority here. And I'm hoping the Trump administration will prioritize that. I think if the straight is open, the US has got to demonstrate the straight is open. That's going to involve sailing ships into the straight of Hormuz. Uh it's going to have to be done it. If you're on a fully loaded liqufied natural gas carrier carrying liqufied natural gas at at, you know, freezing temperatures, uh basically a floating bomb, you're going to want some guarantees that you're not going to get shot at by a drone, a missile, or hit a mine. And that means there's got to be some guarantees that the straight is clear and open. And it is in the best interest of the United States along with its allies and the rest of the world to see the straight open. and not being controlled by Iran. Understand if you surrender control of the straight of Iran uh Hormuz to Iran. We've kind of done that with the Houthis in the Red Sea, we've seen the impact that's had on traffic. If you do it to Iran with the Straight of Hormuz, what stops uh Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore doing it to the Malaca Straits? What happens to South Africa doing it around the Cape of Good Hope? What happens to Spain and Morocco doing it to the Straits of Gibralar? or Denmark, Norway and Sweden doing it to the Baltic uh to the Baltic nations in the Danish straits or US and Cuba in the Florida channel or Mexico and Cuba in the Yucatan channel. Again, this is something that is absolute tenant of world history, not just US history, freedom of the seas. I could take it back to Hugo Gratus and talk about this, but understand this is a key concept. And what we're seeing here is the bifurcation of the world seas. Seeing it with the creation of the dark fleet. Now we're seeing it with control of key maritime choke points. What Iran has done is not closed the Straight of Hormuz. They've choked it. That's why we call it a choke point. That's exactly what's happening. And we got to stop it from happening. I'm not sure how you give a Heimlick to a to a maritime choke point, but that's what we need. We need the maritime version of a Heimlick. With that, I hope you're informed by today's episode. If you were, take a moment, subscribe to the channel, and hit the bell so be alerted about new videos as they come out. Leave a comment, share it across social media, and if you can, support the page. How do you do that? You hit the super thanks button down below or head on over to Patreon. Patreon and become a monthly yearly subscriber. Until the next episode, s sign