# YouTube Video ogyiRsXvDNk

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ogyiRsXvDNk
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 4293 词

---

good evening everyone. i'm lindseay davis. thanks so much for streaming with us. this is war with iran. tonight, defense secretary pete hegset says these next few days will be decisive in the month-long war. this is president trump opens up to abc's jonathan carl, suggesting the us will soon leave iran, even revealing who the us has been talking to inside the regime. the president said the us could pull out of the region without reopening the critical straight of hormuz, leaving it to other countries to get that job done. and tonight, after us bombers destroyed an iranian ammo site which caused a massive explosion, there is a new warning for american companies. iran is threatening to target companies like nvidia, apple, and boeing with facilities in the middle east. there's a lot to get to tonight, but first we begin our team coverage with jonathan carl, who spoke to the president tonight with iran's blockade of the straight of hormuz, causing oil prices to soar around the world. president trump is urging america's allies to quote, "build up some delayed courage. go to the straight and just take it." in a phone call, the president told me of our allies, "they can police it themselves. why should i do it for them? they weren't there for me." the president suggesting that america's allies should be there to help even though they didn't start the war. france, spain, and italy have all expressed reluctance to get involved. for the first time in 3 years, the average price of gas now tops $4 a gallon. in florida, it's 416, up nearly a$130 since the war began. it's worse out west. 492 a gallon in nevada and nearly six bucks a gallon in california. in indianapolis, curtis davis, a delivery driver, now tightening his belt. >> the stuff that i want to do with my kids, like i have to limit that now because of funds. i have to pay more funds for gas throughout the week. >> in atlanta, emily lockach making tough decisions. obviously, it's affecting our family. like, we are tightening up our budget, not going out to eat as much, you know, watching where we're spend our money. >> president has acknowledged he was elected on a promise to bring down the cost of living, but today he told me the booming stock market before the war made it a good time to do it. trump insists the oil prices are going to go down. he has threatened if iran doesn't immediately open the straight, he will be quote blowing up and completely obliterating their civilian infrastructure, including power plants and water systems. he also says the us and iran are talking, telling me we have regime change, and this group is much more moderate and much more reasonable. the president says his team has been talking with the speaker of the iranian parliament, muhammad galibah. speaker gllibof has been jabbing the president on social media. he's toned it down a lot. trump told me he's much better. the president then adding ominously, we know where he lives. let's put it that way. and on cuba, the president telling me, "cuba's gone." when i asked him if he was talking about a military operation against cuba, trump said, "i can't tell you that. i trust you implicitly, but i can't tell you." >> john carl joins us now. john, what else did the president say late today about iran? >> well, well, lindsay, the president spoke to reporters in the oval office and he said that he's finishing up military operations in iran and he said, quote, i think in two or three weeks will leave. and he said once the united states pulls its military out of the persian gulf, gas prices quote will come tumbling down. uh but you know he's saying this at the same time that he's saying uh that he's not going to take responsibility uh for opening up the straits of hermuz the strait of hermuz which of course the the the the bottling up there is what's caused oil prices to skyrocket and he's still saying what he told me this morning which it's up to our allies to deal with that problem. >> but it is a problem for all of us. all right john carl for us. thanks so much john. >> thank you. there are dramatic new images from the war with iran tonight. the us targeted an iranian ammunition site leading to a massive explosion. plus, the us has now begun flying b-52 bombers over iran. abc's matt rivers is in the middle east with the latest >> tonight. massive explosions ripping through this military complex in iran, sending flaming debris shooting into the air. an official telling abc news the us struck an ammunition storage facility in isvahan, dropping multiple 2,000 lb bunker busting bombs. for the first time in this war, the pentagon now saying b-52 bombers are flying deep over iranian territory. and tonight, secretary pete hgsith saying the battle is moving into a decisive phase. the upcoming days will be decisive. iran knows that and there's almost nothing they can militarily do about it. yes, they will still shoot some missiles, but we will shoot them down. >> tonight, a third aircraft carrier, the uss george hw bush, departing for the middle east with 4,500 sailors aboard. families emotional. >> i'm just trying to be strong for him. um, it's really hard being away from someone like that. >> iran still wreaking havoc. new images of an oil tanker hit by an iranian drone near dubai, punching a hole in the ship, sparking a fire on board. and tonight, an iranbacked militia accused of kidnapping an american journalist in baghdad. iraqi officials confirming this chilling video shows the moment shelley kdson was forced into a car and taken. authorities arresting at least one suspect as an urgent search intensifies. and >> matt joins us now from doha, qatar. so matt, tell us about this new warning tonight for americans in saudi arabia. yeah, lindsay. tonight, the state department with a new warning for americans in saudi arabia about threats to places where they tend to gather, like schools and hotels. this as iran continues to threaten to attack american corporate facilities across the region. >> and a major escalation of israeli operations in lebanon. what can you tell us about that? >> yeah, this is a big deal. the defense minister in israel announcing that israel is planning to invade southern lebanon. not only that, but occupy large swaths of southern lebanon. they say they need to do that to create a security buffer zone against the continued threat from hezbollah. but effectively, they are displacing 600,000 people who live south of the latani river. and they also say they're going to destroy homes, villages near the border. so if these people can ever come back to their homes at any point remains very unclear. lindsay, >> matt rivers for us from qatar tonight. thank you, matt. a retired army colonel believes the next 10 days will be critical in the war with iran. he spoke to stephanie ramos earlier. >> if this conflict escalates into a fullblown regional war, is there an offramp to deescalation? >> well, we're sitting at this incredible inflection point, stephanie. when the secretary uh or secretary heg came out today and said decisive days are ahead, he is seeing something. and how i translate that to mean is the us has a distinct advantage in his mind to achieve what it wants both in the military and diplomatic space. so when he talks about the 10 days, it's really tied to that april 6th deadline that was put out from the president to the iranians. and you there's going to be three potential outcomes. number one, they could extend it. number two, we could have a deal and things could deescalate to a degree. maybe it's the five points or aversion or maybe things escalate. we go back to the infrastructure threats or we go back to, you know, targeting other things that are extremely important to iran. now, the irgc also announced in tandem that they will target 18 us businesses in the region, most of them being tech companies or what the irgc called terror spy companies. and you know, we work with those companies every single day with global guardian on the ground with intel, our ground teams, evacuation. we already evacuated 4,200 of their employees. so, we take those things seriously. but what here's how i translate that. this is all about the negotiation. irgc and iran's trying to find another negotiating us pain point that they can negotiate away. so, these next 10 days and what comes out of it is going to be fascinating. >> fascinating and crucial. well, what do you make of president trump saying he's now speaking with iran's parliamentary speaker and negotiating with the new regime? you know, the last couple of weeks there's been this back and forth about who the us is speaking to when it comes to iran. >> i think it's great clarity. at least we know who he's talking to and the person he's talking to is a serious player that carries a lot of what they term as wasa in the middle east, a lot of influence. so, i am happy to see that, but there's still a long way to go. there's a lot of internal dynamics on the iranian side with the hardliners. is this team that he's talking to able to pull off what it's going to promise? are we going to be able to see real change? um, and then really, what is iran capable of doing? and let's go back and remember, they're in a fragile spot from an infrastructure perspective, an economic perspective, and then a local population perspective. so, they have a lot to lose. these 10 days, these negotiations, we really have to pray that something positive comes out of it. >> and let's talk about the straight of hermoose. it the president has mentioned a few times ending the war with iran without opening the straight of hermoose. so, how do you see the situation playing out there? >> so, i think you you have to negotiate with the straight of hermoose. i think he's messaging saying, "hey, i'm willing to walk away and leave this behind and iran, you're gonna have to figure this out because there's no iranian marshall plan in the wings." i mean, who's going to put iran back together again? they were a failing economy and a failing infrastructure before the war started. now, after 9,000 strikes and a blistering summer on the way with their water situation being really, really, really dire, you know, iran is going to need some external help. iran, russia's not coming. china's not coming. the gulf states aren't going to help them. iran is going to have to barter the streets of hermuz at some point. that's how i see it playing out. >> what do you think are the potential triggers that could lead to further escalation at this point in the war? so the five i tell folks that you've got to watch. the first are strikes on any ships in the straits of hermuz. uae has a huge lever to pull. they could freeze iran's financial assets right now. the global economic pathway to the global economy. it would be the equivalent of grabbing car island. if they were to freeze all of those assets, iran would be absolutely cut off from the global economy. i think a third would be a us mass casualty event with with real deaths that come at in mass. i think that would be a huge trigger. if the gulf states started going on the offensive, they started striking iranian targets. that would be a huge trigger. and then finally, and the one we're all watching the closest, diplomatic failure, the talks collapsed. now the us has got to escalate. and now we're talking about reducing or destroying the rest of the power infrastructure, water desalinization plants. and i pray that doesn't happen because the humanitarian disaster that would follow would be something that we haven't seen in a long, long time. it would dwarf gaza. >> coming up, a closer look at the crippled humanitarian response and the food crisis that's only making matters worse as the war drags on. plus, the war's impact on the upcoming world cup games. will iran play in the us? what the head of fifa said today. welcome back. today, the fifa president insisted that iran will play in the world cup, which kicks off in the us in just over two months. his comments came despite a show of protests from iranian soccer players during a warm-up match in turkey. players and officials posed with pictures of children allegedly killed by us and israeli air strikes. just last week, the iranian government was trying to get the team's three games in los angeles and seattle moved to mexico. neither the us nor israel has accepted responsibility for the february attack. more than 165 people, mostly children, were killed when an elementary school was hit in an air strike. today, israel defense forces gave residents in lebanon's capital of beirut one hour to evacuate ahead of strikes, saying it's targeting hezbollah there. meanwhile, israel said it will establish a security zone inside southern lebanon and keep more than 600,000 people from returning to their homes. abc news live first anchor diane medo talked to our chief foreign correspondent ian panel about this. >> ian, how significant is this announcement? >> i think it's very significant. i mean, what it shows is that this isn't just a a short-term limited ground operation by the israeli defense forces. this is far larger in its scale, and it seems to be mirroring, as uh defense minister kat said there uh some of the operations that took place in gaza. they will be demolishing homes. they'll be leveling the ground uh near the border. as you said, 600,000 people have been driven out of their homes and they're not going to be allowed to return back until the israeli defense forces, until the israeli government is confident that hezbollah has been neutered. of course, this is something that they've tried before unsuccessfully. so, although they've managed to diminish their offensive capabilities, they've taken out leadership. sounds familiar, right? uh hezbollah was certainly able to regroup and launch attacks again, which we're seeing daily attacks from lebanon into israel uh by the iranian proxy group. so what this actually looks like when they talk about having this uh security area uh is it's an invasion and it's occupation of the land. now it may not be uh a neverending occupation, but for now at least that's certainly what it is. the un refugee agency says more than a million people have been displaced in lebanon. what happens to them now? >> a very good question. i mean, it's a huge crisis inside the country uh at a very difficult time economically anyway for lebanon. uh and remember, this is not the first war conducted by israel against hezbollah. again, we saw large-scale destruction, uh massive displacement. i've been to some of those idp camps, the internally displaced people camps. uh they're miserable places. the living conditions are tough. people rely on handouts. uh children aren't going to school. uh it's no kind of either sanitary uh uh living conditions or ones that offer any kind of privacy or human decency. so of course refugee agencies, local agencies, the local population, relatives are all kind of chipping in to try and help. uh but the numbers are simply overwhelming. and all the while, you've got this ongoing bombing campaign by the israelis. as you say, this has been the second warning to residents in certain parts of beirut to leave their homes given just one hour to get out before the bombing starts. >> meanwhile, ian, israel will now mandate the hanging of palestinians convicted of killing israelis in terror attacks. israel's deputy speaker calls this a change in the direction in the the right direction in the fight against terrorism, but human rights groups are calling this discriminatory. it applies differently to jewish people. they're asking israel's supreme court to strike it down. what does this new law mean for palestinians and israelis? >> yes, it's it's not specifically designed differently for for jewish people necessarily. it's designed differently for palestinians uh and israelis. uh but it won't automatically apply to uh israeli extremists who for example say they kill palestinians in similar circumstances and we've seen examples of that uh among some extremists uh in the west bank. instead uh israeli citizens will be given the option of life uh imprisonment and we've seen this long-standing campaign by israel's farright parties to try and increase punishment for palestinians convicted of killing israelis. prime minister netanyahu was one of those who was in parliament uh voting for this legislation. the association for civil rights in israel saying it's unconstitutional and discriminatory. uh and it's also drawn strong criticism from arab and palestinian groups basically saying this is racist legislation that furthers this legal aparite uh against palestinians. now, it's not necessarily the end of the process. there will be appeals in israeli supreme court and we have to wait and see whether it's held up or not. now to the worsening humanitarian response because of the iran war. the straight of hormuz not only critical to global oil trade, it's also key for delivering food and medical supplies. and as one expert told our stephanie ramos, we're dealing with a food crisis like never before. >> what do you think they need to do right now? >> well, stephanie, the situation is incredibly dangerous right now and it's growing more so by the day. what the administration needs to do is two things. first, they have to get money to the un and nos's who are delivering life-saving aid on the ground as we speak. uh, and the second is they need to coordinate some of the aid that's stuck in warehouses in dubai. these are large costcoized warehouses full of blankets and medicines, things you would expect needed in this moment. and they're stuck there with no way out. and the united states has the ability to get it there. and we've spoken to a number of aid workers who have echoed this, who have said it's been so challenging to get humanitarian supplies to individuals in in in these nations. um the straight of hermoose is still closed. so let's talk about that. how concerned are you uh about aid at this point if the straight remains closed? >> uh very concerned. it's having a cascading impact not just in the region but around the world. right now, there's 70,000 metric tons of food that are sitting at sea. it cannot get out. we're dealing with a food crisis the size of which we've actually never seen before. it rivals what we saw in ukraine when that war began and some of the supply chains broke down. today, the world food program is predicting 45 million additional people are going to be food insecure, acutely food insecure, meaning very, very close to famine type conditions. >> have any international aid groups been able to get through to these country? have they been able to pass >> uh through the straight itself? no. uh the un has announced an initiative to try to get fertilizer through the straight of hormuz. but what we're not seeing is a focus on humanitarian aid. dubai has been an anchor for the world to get aid stored in a place that's very convenient and proximate to so many humanitarian crises. and getting it out of there at this moment would mean a lot to millions of people. we spoke with uh one aid worker who was telling us about how difficult it is to get to the people in lebanon, for instance. so millions have been displaced there. how much of an impact do you believe this this war will have on the rest of the world? >> i think we're only at the very beginning of of having an answer to that question, but i would say this could be one of the biggest crisis of the 21st century. and here's why. iran has a population of 90 million people. even if 10% were displaced in that country, it would represent the largest refugee outflow, migration outflow we've seen in the last 25 years anywhere. in lebanon, it's not just the population there, which is 5 million, as you mentioned, over 1 million currently displaced. many are flowing back into syria, a place that they've left after a civil war there that took 15 years. so, the pressure isn't contained to any one individual country. it's going to flow out and it will affect many stable countries, not just in the region, but in the in europe and potentially in the united states as well. >> our thanks to stephanie for that. coming up, the pain at the pump. we'll hear from more frustrated drivers, plus an expert who says it could be months before drivers see any relief from record high prices. i used to fill my gas pump for around i would say you know $30 or so but now it's it's gone up to $50 to $60 to fill the you know the gas tank. i'm lucky that i'm still i still have a job where i can be able to fill my tank. but i know there are many people who who can't do that uh who are struggling to to make ends meet do grocery shopping at the dollar general. it's food to gas. so i'm splitting up between gas and food. so yeah, you know, just sacrificing some things. just got to sacrifice. that's all. i'm thinking about getting a horse. yeah. and just feed them hay. ride off of hay. i'm praying that it do go down hopefully very soon. very, very soon. >> those are some of the drivers we're hearing from tonight after we saw the biggest spike in gas prices in just a month and the pain at the pump may be far from over. our selena wang talked to an expert from gas buddy. patrick, just how high do you think prices will go and what will it take for them to finally come down? well, selena, prices will likely continue climbing so long as the straight of hormuz remains mostly or almost completely blocked, and that could be several weeks yet. on the flip side, if and when the straight reopens to many vessels that have been waiting, we could see a rather dramatic decline in the price of oil, which could immediately turn around gas prices, and a decline could stretch for several weeks. so, this is very much a do or die situation when it comes to this trade. will it reopen? how much uh will it reopen? will vessels uh will the bulk of vessels be able to go through? is this a trickle flow? uh all of that will hold the details for how quickly oil could decline or how much oil could continue to advance. >> so just how high could prices get if the us were to just walk away from the middle east with the straight of hormuse still blockaded? >> well, the risk is that we could eventually see $450 a gallon, potentially $5 a gallon as long as iran continues to essentially close the straight with risk of attack. and and you know it certainly would be a large mistake to leave iran with this huge question mark uh akin to a grocery store mess that just sits in the aisle and wait somebody else to clean it up. there's really no cleaning this up and this is something that needs to be addressed for the stability of the global and us economy. >> and where do you see the biggest impact on our wallets after gas prices? is it food prices? is it airline tickets? >> yeah, it's all of that. anything derived from oil, it will be the grocery store. those impacts generally take a lot longer. airfares could go down relatively quickly. once there is clarity, again, that's a very important word here. what does the clarity look like? will it be a full resumption of oil flowing through the strait or is this going to be kind of a muddy, murky time? is this going to be something that iran holds over the global economy? to that end, it may take several months for us to see a full relief at the pump. but for now, to your point, diesel prices screaming higher with several states now including florida uh setting new all-time record highs for the price of diesel just joined by arizona coupled with california, washington, hawaii. we now have five states where diesel prices have reached new all-time records. that is sure to hit consumers in the the wallet significantly. >> our thanks to selena for that interview. and that is our show for this half hour. i'm lindseay davis. be sure to stay tuned to abc news live for more context and analysis of today's top stories. thanks so much for streaming with us.