# YouTube Video FbsFnAsRI24

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FbsFnAsRI24
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 9888 词

---

Live from Washington DC, this is Balance of Power with Joe Matthew and Kaylee Lines. It's day one of the ceasefire between the US and Iran. Or at least it is in theory. Welcome to Balance of Power on Bloomberg TV and radio. I'm Kaylee Lines, coming to you live after the US and Iran agreed to stop fighting for two weeks. And yet today, strikes continue sporadically across the Middle East and in Lebanon where Israel is still conducting operations against Hezbollah. And for that reason, the Street of Hormuz is not yet fully reopened. We have a lot to dig into this hour. We'll get the latest from the White House with Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall and analysis from our political panel. Plus, as the administration and President Trump are claiming that this has been an outright military victory for the United States, we'll get a sense of the extent to which that is true as the former commander of Sentcom, General Frank McKenzie, will join us shortly. We'll also speak with Democratic Congressman uh Congresswoman that is Debbie Wasserman Schultz for her reaction later this hour. But we begin with the market's reaction to all of this because it has been fast and it has been furious. And that's where we start with Amy Morris here in Washington. Hey Amy. &gt;&gt; Hey Kaylee. You know, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer is now telling reporters that the Senate's expected to vote next week on a war powers resolution, and Iran's semiofficial news agency says Tyrron is now preparing a heavy response to Israel's attack on Lebanon. So, we're going to watch all of that and so are the markets. Right now, we're seeing S&amp;P 500 up 2.5%, that's 168 points. NASDAQ up more than 3%, that's 685 points. And look at the Dow up 2.6%. That's 1,231 points higher. The 10-year Treasury yield at 4.27% and the 2-year yield at 3.76%. And as expected, oil is lower. Both WTI and Brent crude now near $94 a barrel. Spot gold more than 1% higher around 47.60 per ounce, and the Bloomberg dollar spot index is less than 1% lower. Sources say a key Saudi oil pipeline to the Red Sea suffered only limited damage from an earlier drone strike on one of its pumping stations and that the damage from the strike was limited and contained and the pipeline was not shut down as a result of that strike. The East West pipeline has served as a vital lifeline for getting oil from Saudi Arabia, bypassing the largely closed straight of Hormuz. And Delta Airlines oil refinery helped reduce the fuel price paid per gallon in the first quarter by more than 2% and will provide a $300 million benefit to second quarter expenses. Delta's first quarter earnings report beat expectations and Delta stock jumped after the company reported those earnings and the Iran's fire was announced. Delta shares more than 6% higher. For on demand news 24 hours a day, subscribe to Bloomberg News now wherever you get your podcasts. I'm Amy Morris. That's the Bloomberg Business Flash. Let's get to balance of power with Kay Kaylee Lines. &gt;&gt; All right, Amy Morris, thank you so much. Running us through a market that is adjusting in real time to a ceasefire agreement in the Middle East, though it is one that even one of the architects of it, someone who was influential in getting us to this point. The vice president of the United States, JD Vance, is describing it as fragile. And those fragilities are on display as Iran says the street of form is still not reopened at least to oil tankers because of Israel's ongoing fighting against Hezbollah in Lebanon. We still have questions too about the fate of Iran's nuclear program, whether or not they will agree to stop all enrichment and forfeit the remaining uh enriched uranium that they still have in their territory. And there are other questions too about the wider ramifications of where this exactly leaves the Middle East and our posture in it. We're going to get into that in just a moment with General Frank McKenzie, who used to lead Central Command. But first, we want to check in on on the politics of all of this and the positioning of President Trump, who has four weeks been suggesting that he wanted to see a deal happen. &gt;&gt; All I can tell you is they're begging to make a deal. &gt;&gt; If there is no deal, we are going to hit each and every one of their electric generating plants. We have to have a deal that's acceptable to me. And part of that deal is going to be we want free traffic of oil. &gt;&gt; But again, free traffic of oil as of right now is not yet our reality. So let's turn to Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall who is joining us live from the north lawn of the White House. So Tyler, it's one thing to agree to a ceasefire. It's another thing to agree more widely to a longer term deal. How much progress realistically are we seeing in that direction? Well, Kaylee, at this point, within the last hour, we did get a post from President Trump on Truth Social, seeming to indicate that he feels that talks between the US and Iran are on track to happen, even as we get this reporting that the ceasefire is at this point very tenuous. Now, President Trump in this post said that only the US and Iran will know what is happening behind closed doors and outlined that he feels that there is only one set of what he is calling quote meaningful points that would contribute to an agreement. Earlier today, as you well know, in another post on Truth Social, the president outlined that the US is looking for an agreement where Iran would no longer have a nuclear weapon and would work with the US on extracting its already enriched nuclear material. He said in exchange, the US is considering lifting some of those sanctions and tariffs on the country, but until we get to talk about a longerterm deal, this ceasefire needs to hold. And as you've already outlined, we're seeing some of those sticking points start to emerge, including Iranian state media reporting that traffic through the straight of Hermuse continues to remain halted and that Iran is now preparing for what they are calling a serious attack in response to Israel's moves in Lebanon. Now, keep in mind, Israel has opened a separate front in Lebanon to target the Iranian-backed Hezbollah militant group. And the US and Israel say that that is not part of any ceasefire deal. In fact, President Trump called it a quote separate skirmish in an interview with PBS News earlier today. But Kaye, according to Pakistan's foreign minister who is helping to mediate these discussions, they are saying that Iran wants to see that front of the war uh combined in to any potential ceasefire or else they are going to continue these strikes on Gulf state energy infrastructure. Well, and Tyler, when we uh consider not just the messaging we're getting um from Pakistan and and the true social posts we're getting from President Trump, we are expecting this hour a briefing from the White House press secretary Caroline Levid. It has not uh begun yet. But aside hearing from her, will we be hearing more directly, at least on camera, from President Trump, who's meeting with the Secretary General of NATO at the White House today, but hasn't invited press into that? At this point, that meeting at 3:30 p.m. Eastern does remain closed. But to be a fly in the wall, perhaps it will open up because, of course, Secretary General Mark Reta and President Trump are considered to have a relatively warm relation. Uh, but transatlantic relations have been strained by the war in Iran. As you all know, President Trump uh last week issued perhaps his uh starkkest warning that the US is considering leaving the alliance. But I can actually say that our own reporting from Bloomberg News indicates it's actually been recent comments from Secretary of State Marco Rubio that the US should reassess its position in NATO that has caused alarm bells throughout Europe. Now, of course, and as you discussed last hour, uh this is perhaps more easier uh said than done. It would require twothirds a majority vote in the Senate, but Kaylee, we know that the president has some other things that he could do. Our reporting indicates that there is real concern that the US could stay in NATO but perhaps not adhere to article 5, the mutual defense clause. President Trump could withdraw the US ambassador to NATO or refuse outright to uh participate in joint military exercises. So no doubt there's going to be a lot to listen to when it comes to that meeting, but at this point it remains closed to the press. All right, Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall live on the north lawn of the White House. Thank you so much. So press not getting the invite as of yet uh into the White House where that meeting is taking place. But press were present at the Pentagon this morning when we heard once again in the joint briefing from the chair of the joint chiefs of staff Dan Kaine, the general and the defense secretary Pete Hexath who described victory in Iran. &gt;&gt; Operation Epic Fury was a historic and overwhelming victory on the battlefield. Iran begged for this ceasefire. Iran's air force has been wiped out. Iran no longer has an air defense any sort of a comprehensive air defense system. We own their skies. Their missile program is functionally destroyed. He says it's victory with a capital V. But I wonder if our next guest agrees with that assessment. I'm pleased to say that General Frank McKenzie is joining us. The former commander of US Central Command, now executive director of the University of South Florida's Global and National Security Institute. General, thank you for your time. Welcome back to Bloomberg TV and Radio. If it were to end here, if this ceasefire ultimately ends uh in a lasting uh truce or secession, a sessation of hostilities, would you describe this as victory with a capital V? &gt;&gt; I would if we're able to get uh from Iran what's in our negotiating position? And I think what I've seen of public statements about the US negotiating position and what we're going to demand of Iran is going to be free passage to the straight of Hormuz, limitations on their nuclear program, limitations on their ballistic missile program, and limitations on the proxy exportation of terror across the region. If those conditions obtain, then clearly this will be a significant victory. And the hard part is ahead of us. Look, the Iranians are not great fighters. They've never been great fighters. They're brilliant negotiators and they know how to negotiate. They grew up in a culture that is based on negotiation. They will now seek to draw negotiations out, change the terms and create a new reality. And that's our task now will be to take the substantive operational victory which we have obtained and turn it into something lasting and strategic. So you say, General, that Iran, the Iranians are not great fighters and yet they had the world and global commerce and the companies that operate uh tankers that needed to go through the straight of Hormuz believing that they posed a credible threat to the safety and security of those cargo and crews. And if even President Trump himself is staying saying that vessels need to be coordinating with Iranian armed forces if they want to pass if Iran is uh openly talking about charging vessels to do so. Is that not still a lever that Iran is going to be able to say it can pull at any time? &gt;&gt; Iran has powerful geographic advantages based on where they are uh in the straight of Hormuz. The United States Navy has the ability to open that straight and keep it open if required to do so. We haven't we haven't asked the Navy to do that just yet. That could still be in the future. Look, here we are less than really 24 hours into this uh ceasefire. It appears not to be holding completely on the Iranian side. Anyway, I'm going to be real interested to see what happens in the next 48 72 hours if the Iranians are actually going to adhere to it. U and that would it would be good if they did because I think as we've as I've told you there's a path forward here for negotiations. Uh but part of that path is going to have to be opening the straight of Hormuz. Should they choose not to do that, we do have the capability to open that straight. Well, and beyond our capabilities to open the straight, the president also was suggesting that the US military had the capability to wipe out or in his words uh kill make die a whole civilization. Obviously, we did not see him follow through on that threat with the agreement for this two-week ceasefire, but our our service members had to be ready for that. general and I wonder if you were inside central command still how you would have had to be prepared for 8:00 p.m. last night and and if you would have you expect that they are still in that ready posture as we speak because of the fragility of this ceasefire. &gt;&gt; So the job of a combatant commander is to give the president and the secretary of defense options uh to give them military activities that will support the policy goals of the United States. I would argue that Central Command has done that over the last 30 days. Brought us to this point in a in a really very effective military campaign against Iran. Now, it's the task of our diplomats to take what we fashioned operationally and militarily, turn it into a lasting strategic outcome. Well, and when we consider the strategic outcomes here, it's one thing uh to consider specifically what this means for the Middle East, for uh Iran and its future, whether it's nuclear capabilities or ballistic missile capabilities, what that therefore means uh for the US interests in this region. But in terms of the signal sent by this conflict elsewhere, knowing for example that the US has expended heavily uh munitions uh and that it may take some time to replenish uh those especially if for whatever reason we have to go back in and strike again if this ceasefire can't hold. Does it not signal that despite military strength that may have been shown with this operation that there could be some weakness ahead because we simply won't have those same stock piles to fall back on? Well, of course, stock piles can be rebuilt. Uh, I think a lesson that &gt;&gt; take years though, General, &gt;&gt; it depends on what we do with our defense industrial base, which is another question entirely. I think long before the conflict with Iran, uh, there was a sense within this administration that the defense industrial base was too small, too inefficient uh, to actually support the size of the force that we have in the field today against the requirements that we might have. And I believe a number of initiatives are underway to repair that right now. But but go back to your original question. I think potential foes across the world are looking very thoughtfully at the success of the US joint force in the campaign over the last 30 days. And yes, you're right. We have eaten into magazines, but I would note again those magazines can be replenished and they can be replenished quickly depending on the level of emphasis we choose to put on it. It's interesting to consider that emphasis as we know the Pentagon is uh expected at least to make a $200 billion supplemental funding request on top of the $ one.5 trillion defense budget uh the president already requested of Congress last week. Our defense industrial base obviously is a consideration here. But we heard at the Pentagon today from both the joint chief chair uh and defense secretary HGseeth about the degradation of Iran's defense industrial base in particular, noting how they were specifically targeting sites that that make drones that make missiles. So what about Iran's capability to rebuild that if it so chooses? &gt;&gt; So I think Iran's capabilities to build missiles to build drones sign very very degraded. Uh I don't read the classified information so I don't know the details but I would say this uh that fact coupled with our ability to maintain a persistent overhead presence over Iran will give us very good visibility into the status of their what's left of their industrial base and we'll know very quickly if they choose to rebuild it and that could lead us to other decisions in the future to restrike. All those things are possible. All of those things the Iranians are acutely aware of. Well, and we've already heard uh about the the surveillance that we have on the remaining uh nuclear sites in material after Operation Midnight Hammer. The defense secretary was talking about that today. We've had uh repeatedly suggestions that they could always go in and strike again uh if they needed to, which is why a diplomatic agreement uh around that enriched uranium is going to be so critical here. I also wonder, General, as we're considering uh the Middle East more widely, the idea that Iran has and still today sporadically was hitting uh other Gulf nations that this was not just about US assets or Israeli uh assets that we have seen this spread elsewhere. if this has fundamentally reshaped the Middle East in in some way and even potentially had the effect of drawing some of these other G Gulf states closer to Israel if they may now see their interests as being more aligned. &gt;&gt; No, you're absolutely right. The Iranian decision to strike uh unprovoked its neighbors in the Gulf is the equivalent of Hitler's decision to declare war on the United States in December 1941 after the attack on Pearl Harbor. We were mobilized to fight Japan. It would have been hard for President Roosevelt to mobilize people against Germany. Hitler took the problem out of his hands by declaring war on the United States. That's a little of what the Iranians have done by attacking their neighbors across the region. Uh what began with IC neutrality uh among those countries is now moving to support for our goals. And you're right, the long the clear long-term uh future in the region in terms of defense and a variety of other things is going to feature the continued integration of Israel into those activities. That's inevitable and the Iranians have no one to blame for that but themselves. &gt;&gt; Well, it'll be interesting to see if indeed the president does get the expansion of the Abraham Accords that he has long said he is seeking. Just on Israel though it is worth pointing out general that of course Israel right now says Lebanon is not part of this ceasefire that it is going to continue its operations against Hezbollah clearly that is not sitting well uh with Iran who wants to see that front uh halted as well if there's to be ships transiting the straight of form. How should we consider Israel's position and the threat posed by Hezbollah uh right now in terms of how the region moves forward and how this particular ceasefire can move forward if it can? Well, Lebanese Isbala poses a mortal threat to the existence of the state of Israel. They have sworn that for many years. Uh they've that their activities over the decades have been very clear. They've also been a parasite on the state of Lebanon. I I think Israel's attacks are actually well justified going into Lebanon. We'll see what Iran does. I think Iran will actually think very long and hard before attacking Israel as a result of the ongoing operations that Israel is conducting in Lebanon. I think that would be a mistake for u Iran to stand too strongly behind the idea of coupling what's going on in Lebanon to what's going on in the Straight of Hormuz. That would be a mistake for them. &gt;&gt; All right, General. Thank you so much for joining us here on Bloomberg. That's the former Central Command commander, General Frank McKenzie, now with the National Security Institute. We appreciate you joining us. And on the subject of Israel, we are hearing from the Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who says Israel made quote, "huge gains in this war, but is poised to resume the war whenever necessary." Once again, this is a fragile ceasefire that we're speaking of here, and we'll have more on that next here on Balance of Power on Bloomberg TV and radio. I would point out here in Washington, we are keeping eyes on the White House as we were just given the two-minute warning to the beginning of the briefing from the White House press secretary Caroline Levit. she said to answer questions uh from the press momentarily and of course as we are awaiting uh further detail and insight into this uh tenuous ceasefire between the US and Iran. We'll bring you those uh relevant remarks from her. But we're also getting remarks right now from the Prime Minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu, who's talked about great gains that Israel has made in this war with Iran, but is going on to say that this isn't the war's end, and specifically that he insisted that this ceasefire would not include Hezbollah, that any deal would not include Hezbollah and the ongoing fighting in Lebanon, which is a problem that Iran has made clear it has. It would like to see that stop if the straight of Hormuz is to be fully reopened. So, it raises the question as to whether or not the end of this conflict really is near. The Israeli prime minister again says this isn't the war's end. And if the war is not over, does that mean there is still merit in a war powers vote in the United States Congress? The Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer thinks so. He told reporters this earlier today. &gt;&gt; I'm announcing that today the Senate will vote next week on the War Powers Resolution. Congress must reassert its authority, especially at this dangerous moment. No president, Democrat or Republican, should take this country to war alone. Not now, not ever. &gt;&gt; So, let's get into this with our political panel. Rick Davis and Laura Frink are with me. Rick is Bloomberg politics contributor, Republican strategist, and Stonecourt Capital Partner. Laura, Democratic strategist and CEO and founder of Rebel Communications. And I apologize to you both if I have to cut you off at any point to go to the briefing uh from the press secretary. But Rick, just beginning with this idea of a war powers vote next week. Is there still a point? Was there ever knowing that President Trump could very easily veto it if it were to pass? &gt;&gt; Sure. I think this is, you know, basically performative. I think that uh Democrats want to try to continue the debate in the US that, you know, has been going on around the world uh relative to the president's motivations to get in. they they see the polling data, they realize it's an incredibly unpopular war. Uh and um I wouldn't be surprised that we're still having a conversation about a war powers act by the time of the November election. So uh this is just something that I think Democratic leadership has to be committed to if they want to try to politicize uh the u the the war in the best possible way. And I don't think it's going to result in anything. So there is an effect some point that u you know they look ineffective but um you know I it's a no-brainer for for a political exercise of uh of an attack on this administration. &gt;&gt; Well and of course that exercise may be more potent if we are still seeing the war ongoing or if we're in uh a ceasefire. Uh Laura is this worth the Democrats energy at this point even as a political exercise as Rick suggests? Well, the Republicans have all three branch all two branches of Congress and so this is something that they are able to do. But I think the conversation about war powers is something that is on Americans mind and it's in the conversation. How did we get here? How did we choose to strike? And and you're not just seeing that among the American people and polling as he suggested like they they want answers and they'd like to have some sort of understanding of how to limit the president from doing things that perhaps Congress has not approved of. This is an ongoing conversation that has happened, but because of the uniform opposition to this war and and because it's so strong, the the American opposition among the populace is so strong, I think we're having a renewed conversation here. But I also think that we have to look at the fact that uh that that that Republicans are joining in. So, you've got, I believe it was Senator Ron Johnson who was saying that, you know, we really have to worry about President Trump and the decisions that he's making on a day-to-day basis with these wild threats that he continues to engage in, the changes in deadline, etc. You see worry on the Republican side um and and fear uh that decisions will be made in the future that impact Americans and have, you know, a serious impact and effect. &gt;&gt; All right, Laura and Rick Davis, stay with me. We do want to go now though live to the White House as the press secretary Caroline Levit is speaking about this ceasefire. She calls it a victory for the US. Let's listen on &gt;&gt; Including 16 entire classes of Iranian warships. Despite once being the largest undersea force in the Middle East, Iran now has zero submarine vessels. 97% of Iran's once massive inventory of more than 5,000 naval mines has also been targeted and destroyed. Iran's air forces are functionally and operationally irrelevant at this point after the United States maintained total air dominance over their country for weeks on end. To underscore the significance of this, before Operation Epic Fury, the Iranian a Air Force would fly between 30 to 100 flights per day. Today, that number is zero. Iran's ability to fund and support its terrorist proxies has been greatly reduced. At this point, Iran can no longer distribute weapons to its proxies in the region. And most importantly, Iran will not be able to acquire nuclear weapons. Prior to the start of this this successful operation, Iran was aggressively expanding its short-range ballistic missile arsenal. Through these weapons and its navy, Iran was attempting to build a military buildup around their country that would pose an imminent and existential threat to the United States military assets in the Middle East. our allies in the region and ultimately the free world. Iran was pursuing this dangerous and aggressive strategy for one reason, to hold the entire world hostage to its terrorist ambitions. The Iranians aimed to use their expanded military capabilities as a shield around their country to continue achieving their ultimate goal internally, building nuclear bombs. But their murderous and evil plans have been blown up quite literally and figuratively along with their military, their nuclear program, and most of their senior leadership, including the former Supreme Leader Ayatollah Allah Kamani. Their commanding control structures were also massively disrupted after being struck more than 2,000 times. Many of their remaining leaders are paralyzed in fear and no longer enjoy the freedom to move around their country freely and meet openly. Thanks to the unmatched excellence of our warriors at the direction of the commander-in-chief, the world has just witnessed a historically swift and successful military triumph. President Trump started Operation Epic Fury with strategic military objectives, and the United States has clearly achieved them. As we mark this progress, we also remember and honor the 13 American heroes who laid down their lives in this noble effort. I know President Trump and our grateful nation honors their ultimate sacrifice and we will never forget them. May God bless their families. The val valiant efforts of all of our incredible service members created maximum leverage for the president of the United States, allowing he and his leadership team to engage in tough negoti negotiations over the past couple of weeks that have now created an opening for a diplomatic solution in long-term peace in the Middle East. The president's maximum pressure and the leverage created by the success of Operation Epic Fury led to the Iranian regime asking for and ultimately agreeing to a ceasefire proposal with the United States. Iran could no longer tolerate being bombed or taking the gamble of what was to come following President Trump's 8:00 p.m. deadline last night. Iran has agreed to open the straight of Hermoose and as the president said, we have received a proposal from the Iranians that has been determined to be a workable basis on which to negotiate. I've seen a lot of inaccurate coverage today from the media about these negotiations and these plans already. So, let me be clear and correct the record. The Iranians originally put forward a 10-point plan that was fundamentally unserious, unacceptable, and completely discarded. It was literally thrown in the garbage by President Trump and his negotiating team. Many outlets in this room have falsely reported on that plan as being acceptable to the United States, and that is false. With the president's deadline fast approaching and the United States military completely decimating Iran with each passing hour, the regime acknowledged reality to the negotiating team. They put forward a more reasonable and entirely different and condensed plan to the president and his team. President Trump and the team determined the new modified plan was a workable basis on which to negotiate and to align align it with our own 15-point proposal. The president's red lines, namely the end of Iranian enrichment in Iran, have not changed. And the idea that President Trump would ever accept an Iranian wish list as a deal is completely absurd. The president will only make a deal that serves in the best interests of the United States of America. and he as it negotiating team will focus on this effort over the next two weeks so long as the straight of her remains open with no limitations or delays. These extraordinarily sensitive and complex negotiations will take place behind closed doors over the course of the next two weeks. I would strongly advise the media against running with narratives that have no basis in fact. What Iran says publicly or feeds to all of you in the press is much different than what they communicate to the United States, the president, and his team privately. Never underestimate President Trump's ability to successfully advance America's interests and broker peace. President Trump has a proven track record of achieving good deals on behalf of the United States and the American people, and he will only accept one that puts America first. With that, I will take your questions today. I'm sure you have a lot of them. In our new media seat, we have Shane Harris with the AAC News Line. Shane, thank you for being here. Why don't you kick us off? &gt;&gt; Yeah, thanks for having me, Caroline. Uh, two questions for you. First, following the president's announcement of the ceasefire, if this is indeed the end of hostilities in Iran, what is the president's message to the American people about what was it achieved for our country through Operation Epic Fury? &gt;&gt; Sure. I think I just laid out a significant portion of that in my opening remarks. 6 weeks ago, the president looked the American people in the eye directly and he told them that he launched this operation to take out the imminent threat that was posed by Iran. Uh, and that threat has now been greatly destroyed. Their navy, their missiles, their defense industrial base and their desire uh, and their plan to build a nuclear bomb inside their country is no longer going to be allowed, can no longer happen thanks to the remarkable success of Operation Epic Fury over the course of the last 38 days. that has been absolutely achieved and now we're moving into the next phase of this which is a negotiating period um to put some fine points on this and to hopefully broker an agreement that can achieve long-term peace in the Middle East. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And then second uh what is the president's message to American seniors who have a much higher voter participation rate and they're likely to be a key swing vote in the midterm elections. &gt;&gt; Well, the president loves our seniors across the country. Uh and as you know, the president signed the one big beautiful bill, the working families tax cut last year, uh which greatly reduced taxes on uh social security for our seniors. In fact, thanks to the working families tax cut, nearly 90% of seniors will no longer pay tax on their social security. That's a huge win for our seniors and also for our middle class and working families across the country with the no tax on tips provision and the no tax on overtime. Next week is tax week. Uh you'll hear a lot from the president about how his policies have benefited the American people and I'm proud to report that the president will be traveling next week to the great states of Nevada and Arizona um to tout this historic accomplishment over the course of the next week. Thank you for being here. Shane Gabe, &gt;&gt; thank you. Caroline Iranian state media is saying that Iran has now closed off the straight of four moves today in response to Israeli attacks on Lebanon. What's the White House response to that? And you just listed many military successes. I understand that. But strategically, how is the administration arguing that Iran does not have more economic leverage than now than it did before the start of the war? &gt;&gt; Sure. Well, with respect to the first reporting out of Iranian state media, the president was made aware of those reports uh before I came to the podium. Um that is completely unacceptable. And again, this is a case of what they're saying publicly is different privately. We have seen an uptick of traffic in the straight today. Uh and I will reiterate the president's expectation and demand that the straight of Hermoose is reopened uh immediately, quickly and safely. Um that is his expectation. It has been relayed to him privately um that that is what's taking place and these reports uh publicly are false. &gt;&gt; Caroline, the president yesterday threatened that a whole civilization would die if a ceasefire deal wasn't reached. understanding that Iranian leaders have previously said death to America, but why is it appropriate for the president of the United States to use that kind of language when talking about civilian targets? And was the president mocking Islam by signing off his true social post over the weekend? Praise be to Allah. Wouldn't that antagonize Muslim allies across the world? &gt;&gt; Well, I understand the questions about the president's rhetoric, but what the president cares most about is results. And in fact, his uh very tough rhetoric and his tough negotiating style is what has led to the result that you are all witnessing today. Iran publicly acknowledging u last night that they have agreed uh or that they wanted this ceasefire with the United States because they no longer could tolerate being bombed by our very powerful and lethal military and that they have committed to the reopening of the Strait of Hermoose which the president will hold them accountable for and it's something the administration is closely monitoring in real time. So the first should the world not take his word seriously? &gt;&gt; The world should take his word very seriously in understanding that the president is always most interested in results. Uh and it was the Iranians who backed down, not President Trump. He said that they would face very grave consequences as you just laid out by the 8:00 p.m. deadline if they did not agree to reopening the Straight of Hermoose. And what did they do last night? They agreed to reopen the Straight of Hermoose. Danny, &gt;&gt; thanks Con. Um would President Trump like to see Lebanon included in this peace deal? As you know, there have been increased Israeli uh strikes on Lebanon today with dozens of casualties there. &gt;&gt; Sure. Uh Lebanon is not part of the ceasefire. That has been relayed to all parties involved in the ceasefire. Uh as you know, Prime Minister Netanyahu put out a statement last night in support of the ceasefire uh in support of the United States's efforts and he's also assured the president they'll continue to be a helpful partner throughout the course of the next two weeks. Is there any thought though that the president might like to see Lebanon included in a future date um given that it seems to be um causing or potentially undermining the Iran ceasefire? &gt;&gt; Again, this will continue to be discussed, I am sure, between the president and Prime Minister Netanyahu, the United States and Israel and all of the parties involved. Um but at this point in time, they're not included in the ceasefire deal. &gt;&gt; Jeff, &gt;&gt; thank you. Caroline, will the US take part in talks with Iran and Islamabad on Friday? I can uh announce that the president is dispatching his negotiating team um led by the vice president of the United States JD Vance, special envoy WhitF and Mr. Kushner to Islamabad for talks this weekend. The first round of those talks will take place on Saturday morning local time. Uh and we know we look forward to those in-person meetings. &gt;&gt; What role does the president see for the US in monitoring or helping with this rate of form moves going forward? &gt;&gt; I think the president commented on that this morning. We're going to continue to monitor it very very closely. U we will be helpful in any way that we can, but we fully expect Iran to do this and the president has made that quite clear as well. It's again, as his uh statement said last night, this ceasefire is subject to um the safe reopening of the straight of Hermoose. Again, this was just determined last night. We understand things take time, but that's the president's expectation and he will hold everyone to it. &gt;&gt; Um sure. In the green blazer. &gt;&gt; Thank Thank you. &gt;&gt; Sure. and then in front of you. But Andrew, you can go ahead. &gt;&gt; All right. &gt;&gt; You're not wearing your green blazer. You can &gt;&gt; I am actually wearing a green blazer. &gt;&gt; Looks a little brown to me, but go ahead. &gt;&gt; Fair. Fair enough. Um, so uh, regarding the president's rhetoric, when the US invaded Iraq in 2003, George W. Bush uh, said in a message to the Iraqi people that the military campaign was directed, quote, against the lawless men who rule your country and not against you. Yesterday, the president threatened to destroy Iran's civilization, the entire civilization, not the Iranian government, but the Iranian civilization, the Iranian people. The US has been a moral leader for most of its history by fighting wars against other governments, not against civilizations. How can the president claim that America can ever have the moral high ground if he's threatening to destroy civilizations and not casting wars as fights against other governments? Andrew, I think you should take a look at the actions of this president over the course of the past six weeks and the actions of our brave men and women in our United States military uh who have taken out uh the mil essentially taken out the military of a rogue Islamic regime that has chanted death to America for 47 years that has killed and maimed thousands of American soldiers over the course of the last five decades. The president absolutely has the moral high ground over the Iranian terrorist regime. And for you to even suggest otherwise is frankly insulting. &gt;&gt; All due respect, Caroline, go ahead. &gt;&gt; With with all due respect, go ahead. &gt;&gt; There is um just given what we've we've seen in Lebanon today and the increased attacks from Israel. I mean, is there any concern that Netanyahu is trying to kill the ceasefire? &gt;&gt; The president spoke with Prime Minister Netanyahu last night. Uh in in that private conversation, Prime Minister Netanyahu relayed exactly what he said to the world publicly that he supports the president uh and Israel remains a key ally and partner to the United States. They've been a tremendous partner over the course of the past six weeks. Uh and we thank them for their heroic efforts as well. Um and the president um had that conversation last night and that was uh relayed to the world publicly as well. &gt;&gt; Reagan, go ahead. &gt;&gt; Thank you, Caroline. I have a question for you on Iran and a question on the dignity act as well. Um on Iran, it's been reported that the ceasefire was struck after the involvement of two unlikely factors, JD Vance and China. What role did those parties play in striking a deal? Well, Vice President Vance has played a very significant and and a key role in this since the very beginning. Of course, he's the president's right-hand man. He is the vice president of the United States. He's been involved in all of these discussions. And as I just announced, he'll be leading um this new phase of negotiations in Islamabad uh later this week. Um, with respect to China, um, there were conversations that took place between top levels of our government and u, China's government, the president has great respect for President Xi uh, and a great working relationship u with him and and with that country uh, and he looks forward to visiting uh, China in just a few weeks. &gt;&gt; And on the dignity act, it's getting a fresh push through Congress. Uh, it would give some illegal immigrants in the country a path to citizenship. What's the White House's position on this legislation and would the president sign it if it made it to his desk? &gt;&gt; Honestly, Reagan, I haven't spoken to the president about the legislation. Um, but I will have that conversation and we'll get you our formal position on it as soon as we can. &gt;&gt; You're welcome. Go ahead. &gt;&gt; The president suggested in Syria this morning that he would support US venture to charge tolls for ships going through the street. Does the president believe that the US should earn revenue from the straight of going forward? It's something it's an idea the president has floated as you know uh and it's something that will continue to be discussed over the course of the next two weeks but the immediate priority of the president uh is the reopening of the strait without any limitations whether in the form of tolls or otherwise. &gt;&gt; And on the highly enriched uranium uh has Iran given the administration any indication that it would simply turn over the enriched uranium or is this an expectation the president has that he would have to send in ground troops in order to do that? This is on the top of the priority list for the president and his negotiating team as they head into these next round of discussions. And as I said in my opener, that is a red line that the president is not going to back away from. Uh and he's committed to ensuring that takes place. Uh we hope it will be through diplomacy. &gt;&gt; Have they have they given any indication that they would turn it over? &gt;&gt; They have. &gt;&gt; They are. Yes. Trevor, &gt;&gt; the latest news out of Iran is that the air defenses have been uh activated in several cities including Isvahan and that explosions have been heard in Israel. Who who is bombing Iran right now? &gt;&gt; Were those reports just as of a few minutes ago? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Okay. So, obviously I'll have to go back and check with the national security team. I'm standing out here with all of you, but I will do that and we will get you an answer. Okay. &gt;&gt; Just on the civilization uh question that we've been talking about. &gt;&gt; And I would just add to that point again, I haven't seen these reports. I'm not verifying them. Not that I don't trust you, Trevor, but I want to go back and check with the experts here at the White House. I would just say, and I would echo what the vice president said this morning, this is a fragile truce. Ceasefires are fragile by nature. We've seen this with respect to the 12-day war uh with Iran and Israel last year. It takes time sometimes for these ceasefires to be fully effectuated. Uh and one of the results of operation epic fury was we completely dismantled Iran's comm command and control center which makes it difficult for them to pass messages up and down the chain. Uh and so we we understand that. I would caution a little bit of patience but of course we want to see the ceasefire uh effectuated and abided by by all parties as quickly as possible. &gt;&gt; Thank you. American presidential administrations going back to Ronald Reagan have said this formulation about nuclear war that a nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought. Is that still the view of this administration given the president's comments about civilization? &gt;&gt; I have no change in our view on that policy. &gt;&gt; Katie, &gt;&gt; thanks Caroline. I'm just given the gravity of what he said yesterday. What was your understanding of what he meant when he said I'm I'm this civilization is going to be eliminated. I think it was a very very strong threat from the president of the United States uh that led the Iranian regime to cave to their knees and ask for a ceasefire and agree to reopening the street of Hermoose. So it was a very strong threat that led to results and as the secretary of war uh stated at the Pentagon this morning u it was not an empty threat by any means. The Pentagon had a target list that they were ready uh to hit go on at 8:00 p.m. last night if the Iranian regime had not agreed to open the straight, which they did. And I think that's something we should all be grateful for. &gt;&gt; The United States as a moral leader in the world given that he &gt;&gt; I was asked this exact same question by your colleague Andrew in the back. And I think again the insinuation by anyone in this room um that Iran somehow has the moral high ground over the United States of America is insulting considering the atrocities that they have considering the atrocities that they have committed against our people and our military over the past five decades. &gt;&gt; John John, go ahead. &gt;&gt; Thanks a lot, Caroline. Uh two questions for you. One has to do with a statement, a joint statement put out this morning by uh some of America's European allies, our NATO allies. And in that joint statement, they said regarding the straight of Hormuz, our governments will contribute to ensuring freedom of navigation in the straight of Hormuz. What's the administration's reaction to that joint statement? Does that smooth things over when the president meets with NATO Secretary General a little bit later this afternoon? I have a direct quote from the president of the United States on NATO and I will share it with all of you. They were tested and they failed and I would add it's quite sad that NATO turned their backs on the American people over the course of the last six weeks when it's the American people who have been defunding their defense. As you know, President Trump will be meeting with Secretary Ruta in a couple of hours here at the White House and I know he looks forward to having a very frank and candid conversation with him. And then secondly, uh, in regards to this conflict, 38 days, as you pointed out, President Trump has said that there's been regime change. Has that regime change led to more freedoms for the Iranian people? &gt;&gt; I think that's a a question that's being asked a little bit too early, John, and and we hope that is the case. Um, but it's something that has yet to be seen. Caroline &gt;&gt; eman Caroline on this question tolling by the Iranians in the straight of Hormuz. I've heard you talk about a number of red lines that the president has in this negotiation, but I haven't heard you say that Iranian tolling in the straight of Hormuz is a red line. Would it be acceptable to the United States at the end of all this if the Iranians are able to charge coals in the straight of &gt;&gt; I think the president was very clear and simplistic in his language last night in his truth social post where he said that this ceasefire is subject to the free safe and immediate reopening of the strait of Hermoose. That's very plain language and it should be taken at face value. &gt;&gt; You mean charge? &gt;&gt; Carrie, go ahead. &gt;&gt; Without limitation, including tolls. Yes, &gt;&gt; Carrie. Quick follow up on the why would the US um allow Iran to collect tolls uh administrative primates. It's not something that we've opposed for a number of years now. Again, that's not something we've said that uh we've definitively accepted. The joint venture is something that was proposed by the president, but he was very clear in his statement last night. He wants to see the straight reopened immediately without limitation, and that's something we're going to hold them to. &gt;&gt; A second question on family and friends in Iran. And I myself am Iranian and I've been talking to them through the blackout. One of my family members yesterday said goodbye to me. So what message should we be sending Iranians when they message me saying what should they be doing right now? How should they stay safe because they really don't know what to do? Uh I think the president's main priority and my main priority as his spokeswoman is to make sure that clear messages are sent um to the American people of course which is my job today with respect to the Iranian people. uh the president, you know, has taken out the imminent threat that was posed by their military, to the United States, to our allies in the region, to our forces in the region. Uh and of course, as the president has long said, he hopes that Iran will be a country of peace, of prosperity, and we're moving into this next round of negotiations to hopefully come to an agreement uh with this new regime um that will create long-term stability in the Middle East. said that they should stay inside of their homes and also take back their country. So, how there's a contradiction there. So, how do you address that? &gt;&gt; Again, we're moving into this next round of negotiations uh with uh the remnants of the regime and those that we are speaking with now to hopefully reach a place of peace uh long term for the region and that includes the Iranian people as well. &gt;&gt; In the blue, go ahead. &gt;&gt; Thank you. The White House issued uh posted the statement from the Iranian government that passage in the strait will be coordinated with Iran's armed forces. As of today, who controls the state of straight up? &gt;&gt; Uh again, this these statements were put out 12 hours ago. Uh we expect that the straight will be opened immediately. As I've said earlier, we have seen an uptick uh in traffic in the straight and it's something that we are monitoring minute by minute, hour by hour as the days go on. I know there who controls the street. &gt;&gt; Two questions. Um, one on the deportations of Iranian officials and then on the negotiations, are there still security concerns about Vice President's Mans being part of these peace talks? Uh, Steve Whit, Jared Kushner. And then two, given the ongoing deportation of General Solommani's niece, does the Trump administration plan to deport more relatives or people in the families of Iranian officials that are in the US? Um certainly anyone who is here fraudulently. I I understand one of the individuals who uh their visa was revoked by Secretary Rubio and they were deported by ICE. They had a fraudulent asylent claim that's against the laws of the United States. So anyone who is here illegally or fraudulently uh is subject to our nation's immigration laws and will be removed from our country. And I know this continues to be a top priority for the State Department working in conjunction with the Department of Homeland Security. With respect to the safety of the vice president, uh we fully trust the United States Secret Service to do their job to keep the vice president and the president's negotiating team safe. Um they do a tremendous job and we fully trust them to do that. &gt;&gt; Caroline in the back. Go ahead. &gt;&gt; Thank you Caroline. President has said Cuba is next. What's the message to the American people regarding Cuba and what can Cubans expect in relation to the statement? Well, look, uh I think when President Trump said that and he later clarified after making that statement that he meant uh the Cuban regime is bound to fall. The country is very weak. Uh they're in a very weak position economically obviously financially. Uh the Cuban people are fed up with their government as they should be. Uh and these talks and discussions continue to happen at the highest level of our government. I don't have any updates or announcements for you with respect to Cuba policy today though. Good. Good to see Thank you, Caroline. Secretary Hexa said this morning that US troops would be sticking around. Can you expound upon that? What we should expect from US troops in theater for the next 2 weeks and beyond? I would defer you to the Pentagon for any specifics on on assets that have been in place in the Middle East, but uh take the secretary at his word and also the president has reiterated this as well in his own words that we're not going to move anything immediately. Again, this is a a two-e ceasefire where we hope at the end and we expect at the end we'll have a good agreement between the United States and Iran. But in the meantime, uh we're going to ensure that our military is always at the ready of the commander-in-chief. &gt;&gt; Take a couple more in the back. Sure. On NATO, I'll take your question. Go &gt;&gt; Thank you, Caroline. On NATO, can you tell me is the United States still considering withdrawing from NATO? Is that still a possibility? It's something the president has discussed and I think it's something the president will be discussing in a couple of hours with Secretary General Ruta and perhaps you'll hear directly from the president following that meeting later this afternoon. Thank you everyone. &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; All right, that was the White House press secretary Caroline Levitt heard live on Bloomberg TV and radio looking ahead to the meeting that President Trump is scheduled to have with the Secretary General Mark Guta at the White House. 3:30 p.m. Eastern time is when that is expected. And uh the press secretary did suggest we may hear from President Trump after that. As she did not uh push back on the notion that the president may be considering withdrawing from the NATO alliance given his disappointment uh with it and lack of participation in this conflict in the Middle East. Of course, it would take an act of Congress to do so. But the press secretary went well beyond that when talking about this ceasefire uh at least for this two-eek period that has been agreed to by the US and Iran. She described that as a victory for the United States. and she said it was Iran that backed down, not the US. She also reiterated that it is President Trump's expectation that the Straight of Hormuz will be opened immediately, suggesting that even though Iran publicly is saying that it is not for oil tankers due to Israel's ongoing strikes in Lebanon, that the suggestions in private, she said, are very different. And on Lebanon, after we heard from the prime minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu, that he made sure Lebanon would not be included in the ceasefire agreement, the press secretary did uh state that plainly. She said that Lebanon uh is not included. Obviously, that is something that Iran would like to see changed, which underscores the fragility of this truce, which uh was emphasized as well uh by Caroline Levit. All of that said, of course, uh she did say that this ceasefire uh has been in place for now. Obviously, there's a lot of questions as we're still seeing strikes. She chocked that up to the fact that the US has destroyed uh destroying a lot of Iran's military communications capability. But it's a lot of questions that we still have. uh to be answered and I'll be back for more on the late edition of Balance of Power at 5:00 PM Eastern time. In the meantime, Fed minutes are just ahead on Bloomberg Business Week Daily right here on Bloomberg TV and radio.