# YouTube Video 5Zbci5FPUWI

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Zbci5FPUWI
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 19309 词

---

It's Tuesday the 7th. Good morning. Welcome back, Europe. This is what we know so far. So, Trump's 8:00 PM Iran deadline absolutely set to dominate today's session. Private credit still a problem. Blew out last night closing at a record low and the shorts have definitely been squeezed in Korea. Samsung's earnings, Anna, smashing expectations. &gt;&gt; Absolutely. Good morning to you, Guy. Let's focus in on some of the assets then as we get ready for a European trading day this Tuesday morning. Brent prices are still higher up by 1.2%. We're very much focused on the straight support moves. What that deadline tonight will mean for the straits certainly very much in our in our sights. Euro stock 50 futures tempted to follow the US higher yesterday but maybe losing that confidence a little bit as we approach the start of the European trading day. That's still an hour away. S&amp;P futures losing their momentum after the gains of yesterday, driven perhaps by peace optimism, driven perhaps by some of the strength in the data after the US. But S&amp;P futures now down 4/10en of 1%. The countdown to the opening trade starts right now. Good morning. 12 hours 58 minutes until Trump's latest deadline. 8:00 PM Eastern tonight. How does today's session go? I don't know. It's going to be a really interesting coin toss. It feels really binary. Yesterday's session, super quiet in the United States. Today feels like maybe the proper first day back. As Anna said, oil's up a little bit. US futures down a little bit. Hard to call where Europe is going to go this morning. We've got to just We're holding our breath. Just waiting for yet another deadline. &gt;&gt; Yes, absolutely. waiting for another deadline. It's very nice to have you back around the desk with the analysis ahead of that deadline, but the market knows full well that we've seen deadlines come and go in the past and that will absolutely be in everybody's uh in everybody's minds as we wait for what does appear to be a fairly binary thing happening 8:00 Eastern, 1:00 Wednesday morning, London time that is. And so we wait for what the US will do. We wait for what the Iranians will do. We've had a lot of contrasting rhetoric around the straight of horses as well, which I think is worth pointing out. Sometimes President Trump has emphasized the extent to which this doesn't matter to him. The latest commentary at the White House has suggested that it does matter once again. He does want that to be um something something that is taken care of in any kind of peace deal. &gt;&gt; What was yesterday's session about yesterday? Super quiet over in the United States. Was it the market waiting for taco? Does the market think that Trump is ultimately going to climb down? The language last night didn't feel like that was going to be the case. So what is the market set up for today? because either he climbs down and you get a big risk-on moment as you say probably into Wednesday morning for us Europeans or he doesn't and he delivers the kind of fire and fury that he's talked about in which case the response is going to be big the damage to oil infrastructure is going to be substantial and you get a big move either way it just feels super binary in terms of the way you trade &gt;&gt; it does I wonder if whatever happens might not be well if if if it if it is a huge wave of violence then maybe it will look like a very binary you know one of one of those arms if it isn't isn't that if it is something like more like taco, you know, the messaging might not be quite so binary. The messaging will be um maybe a different narrative coming out of the White House, but we'll just have to see. I mean, we don't know what the US is going to do, and we don't know how the Iranians are going to respond. Um the Israelis this morning warning Iranians to stay away from train lines. There's talk about what's going to happen to energy assets, what happens to civil infrastructure around bridges, for example. So, we have to watch. &gt;&gt; Yep. Hard to trade. It's going to be interesting to see how the options positioning looks. Um let's talk about private credit. still an issue not going away. Jamie Diamond's worried. Blue Owl crushed again yesterday. &gt;&gt; Yeah, absolutely. Blue Owl certainly closing at a record low and this really has become the poster child for these BDC's, the business development corporations that are uh the list the the the most transparent, the most uh visible ways of looking at the damage uh being done to investors as a result of this. uh but Morgan Stanley and others flagging a different narrative and that is that Wall Street is not put off dialing up its exposure to this particular asset class in certain areas. So Morgan Stanley out with a new private credit fund. It's got a 5% redemption limit and really carefully spelling out that detail in the prospectus which is interesting but this is what you call an interval fund and we've also seen JP Morgan coming forward with an interval fund which is typically more diversified than just direct lending. So it's not just focused on that and they come with these very as the name suggests these intervals where redemptions are allowed and that's what makes them a little bit different to to some of the other private credit. horror big Wall Street banks trying to sell private credit funds don't sound overly concerned about private credit maybe maybe is one message to take away from this but it does seem as if the redemptions are continuing and you look at the numbers that continue to come out they are substantial and it's interesting that those funds and Goldman is pointing to its funds saying this those funds with a greater level of institutional investment are seeing fewer fewer sort of divestments but but if you are in any way exposed to private uh private money you are certainly getting hammered &gt;&gt; yeah absolutely there's a lot of people wanting to talk up the difference between those risk, you know, the BDC's and the retail crowd and investors and what they're institutional investors what they're doing and Goldman Sachs as you say flagging this as an opportunity. &gt;&gt; 4.99% I think was their redemption rate. Very nice number. Uh let's talk a little bit about Samsung. So there's two things that that strike me about Samsung this morning. One of which is the AI trade is still on. Memory chip demand is still absolutely massive. Samsung smashing expectations in the quarter. The second thing is memory prices are up. They're really expensive and that is another signal on inflation. So I I can't work out which way to read it. Samsung feels really inflationary to me. Yet another inflation signal in a big week for inflation. &gt;&gt; Absolutely. It's a good story and a bad story depending on where you are in that supply chain around big tech. I mean, if you're looking to answer the question, have we seen a drop off in demand for chips as a result of everything that's happening in Iran acting as a distraction focusing on the price of energy? No. The answer absolutely is no. Or maybe it's not yet at least. I mean, if we do end up seeing across Asia real shortages of energy, then what does that do to to to buildouts of data centers and the like, but that is certainly one encouraging sign. And I was really just blown away by the operating profit. There you go. There it is on the chart. That's the operating profit. And and the there are some analysts talking about 90% of this operating profit coming from memory. So that is the extent to which this business, a business the size of Samsung is being reshaped by what is happening around AI. &gt;&gt; The rest of us are going to pay Samsung doing very well if you're in the shares. Certainly a big squeeze um in the Cosby this morning as a result of all of this. What we got coming up on the show? Let's talk about what we've got coming up this Tuesday. Peter Shaffer is going to be here very shortly. RBC Capital Markets global macro strategist Carol Nley is going to be here from Crystal Energy. We'll talk about what's happening with the oil price. Barnabas is going to be here at 8. Looking forward to this conversation. UBS's chief strategist. And let's get back to the geopolin, United Nations Association, UK CEO joining us in the back half of the show. &gt;&gt; And let's get a rundown of some of the other big events for markets to keep watching as we go through this week. Today is Tuesday. If you're in Europe, you maybe need a reminder. Today is Tuesday. US Vice President JD Vance will be arriving in Hungary and that's no accident. That comes ahead of the elections that are set to take place the end of this week into the weekend rather. US earnings, we get numbers from Exxon Mobile. That's going to be really interesting because of of course anything to do with energy markets and the higher oil price. Fed minutes on Wednesday, US earnings include Delta Airlines, the other side of that oil price story. Thursday, German industrial production, US core PCE and jobless claims. And Friday, we get US CPI which will be something of a focus or will it will it cut through? I mean, we are expecting at least to see the early signs of inflation pushing through, but not the full story. &gt;&gt; Did you see the services ISM data yesterday? Weak jobs, strong inflation. And that was the print that came out of that number. So, we're going to watch that. We've got PCE data as well coming up midweek and then we get the CPI print at the back end of the week. I I'm fascinated to see hear what Ed Bastian has to say over at Delta on what fuel prices are doing. Like what is happening in terms of availability around the world? I was talking to Ryan the other day, Michael talking if this carries on until the end of April. There are going to be shortages this summer. &gt;&gt; Yeah, the messaging has been so far April's okay, but May and onwards, I mean, who knows? And we we've talked a lot about how it's those uh refined products such as jet fuel that have spiked much more than than we've seen in crude. &gt;&gt; Okay. What else do you need to know? This Tuesday morning, as Anna keeps reminding us, I think it's a good reminder. It's reported that Britain will today host a military planning meeting of more than 40 countries willing to secure safe passage in the straits of after the Middle East war ends. According to the Financial Times, the virtual conference will include France, Germany, Canada, Japan, South Korea, Australia, and the UAE, plus of course others. We're going to watch that one later today. Two Sigma Investments biggest hedge funds generated a standout return during last month. A frantic month of course for markets. Sources say the firm's spectrum fund rose 2 and a half% last month while the absolute return fund gained 3%. Just by way of context, some other hedge funds lost pretty pretty big. Some of the biggest prolific stock pickers in the industry incurring big losses. Tiger Global Management's main fund down 7.3. Maverick Capital dropping five. Viking Global Investors down 4.1%. And if you've seen the amazing pictures over the last 24 hours out of NASA, a crew from NASA, four astronauts making history, traveling further from Earth than any other humans have ever done. The milestone of just over 400,000 kilometers to pass the record set by, get this, Apollo 13. Uh the Orion capsule has now taken astronauts closer to the moon than anyone in more than 50 years. The mission is a critical test of the spacecraft's design to return humans. the lunar surface within 2 years. The pictures of the moon, incredible. &gt;&gt; The pictures of the moon are incredible. And I was really, it was incredible to read how important it is to send people up there with just their eyes to look at some of the detail on the moon that even with incredible cameras is maybe lost. I mean, it's a good job they didn't send me because my eyes wouldn't be very good at this, but no, &gt;&gt; but they're sending people who can see. So, that helps. But that's incredible. I mean, do you do you tell a really optimistic story about what humanity is capable of or do you think about the ways you can spin this into geopolitics? I mean, we we'll continue to tell this story from many angles, no doubt. &gt;&gt; Apparently, it's really hard to land on the moon. The dust and the debris cause all kinds of problems. So, to your point, actually getting an eyeball on it and seeing what it's going to look like. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Really important. &gt;&gt; Yes. Uh let's get to some uh some M&amp;A news this morning, and I think this is an interesting story. So, Universal Music Group, UMG, has received a bid. Persing Square is offering to acquire Universal Music Group, a combination in which UMG shareholders received 9.4 4 billion in cash and 0.77 uh shares in the new UMG stocks. This is cash and shares offer. The total consideration package is estimated to be worth 30 uh euros40 cents a share. This is a stock that closed considerably below that. This of course is Bill Aman's Persing Square. I mean this is interesting in the context of AI that this kind of deal is being done when people are asking questions about how exactly is this industry, the music industry, film industry, all kinds of other creative pursuits to be reshaped by uh by AI &gt;&gt; and to a certain extent that has been priced into the stock um in terms of in terms of what has happened recently. This is a stock that's been down quite sharply in Amsterdam. Um and so is this an opportunity? Is there more still to come? Has the market been adequate in terms of its pricing thus far in terms of the way that it has hit this stock? But yeah, M&amp;A in the music industry. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I remember when Yeah, all the rage to get hold of back cataloges. Uh it it certainly was during COVID. I remember talking a lot about that. Uh coming up on the program, we will look at how European chip stocks react to the open at the open after Samsung reports that bumper earnings story on strong demand for its AI semiconductors. Plus, LG shipments through the Straight of Hormuz have dried up due to the Iran war, cutting off a fifth of the world's supply. How bad can shortages get? There may have been a trickle of vessels coming through over the weekend from very specific nations, but nothing that really uh changes that narrative. We'll discuss that later in the program. Up next, we'll speak to Peter Shaffric, global macro strategist at RBC Capital Markets. If you have any questions, if you want to get involved, IB plus BBTV go is the function to use on the Bloomberg terminal. Tuesday the 7th of April. This is Blue Bag. We have a plan because of the power of our military where every bridge in Iran will be decimated by 12:00 tomorrow night. Where every power plant in Iran will be out of business, burning, exploding, and never to be used again. I mean, complete demolition by 12:00. and it'll happen over a period of four hours if we wanted to. &gt;&gt; President Donald Trump speaking to reporters at the White House, laying bare the potential consequences Iran could face if there is a failure to reach an agreement, including attacks on some of the key infrastructure that he just laid out. Thran has so far rejected a US ceasefire proposal sent via Pakistan while demanding a permanent end to the war. For more, let's bring in Bloomberg Horizon's anchor Jamanna Beti in Dubai. And Jamanna, um, where do where do the talks as we head towards the deadline? Where do we stand? The the the tone has been so, uh, divergent even from President Trump himself, certainly from the White House on some levels talking about progress being made and good negotiations on the other exploitive laden messages and the kind of rhetoric that we just heard. &gt;&gt; That's right, Anna. So, uh, one thing is clear that the threats out of the US have severely ramped up over the course of the weekend, directed towards Iran and of course exemplified by that Easter Sunday message, the true social post that Trump put out using quite swary lang language and really threatening Iran to open up the straits and if not then they would proceed with their plan to uh attack civilian infrastructure. He went on to say yesterday at another press conference that uh that deadline of 8:00 p.m. is a hard deadline as far as he's concerned and that they could complete complete they could actually lead to complete demolition of Iran's bridges of its power plants by 12:00 over the course of 4 hours. So very strong words coming through from President Trump. At the same time he did say that on the other side he does still think that Iran wants to make a deal. Now, if you listen to everything that the Iranian side have put forward over the last couple of days, it would suggest otherwise and uh New York Times reporting overnight that they have set out their own counter terms. There are 10 points that they put forward saying what they would like to see to see an end to the hostilities. They don't want a temporary truce. They'd like a permanent ceasefire, guarantees that the US won't strike again. Also, a new protocol around the Straight of Homers where whereby they could actually charge a transit fee. And of course, all of this is is a non-starter for the US. So at this point, it seems as though the chances of a diplomatic breakthrough are very very slim indeed. And Iran have vowed to retaliate quite extensively against Gulf countries infrastructure should the US follow through with their threat. So President Trump's options here in the absence of a diplomatic breakthrough, one extend the deadline again uh at the risk of eroding some of the US credibility here. Number two, don't follow follow through on the threats and similar, you know, eroding some of the credibility of those deadlines. And the third is actually follow through on that military escalation at the risk of causing even more damage, not just to regional economies, but to the global economy as well. &gt;&gt; Jam, thanks for the updates. Uh, we continue to countdown to that deadline. 12 hours 41 minutes to go until 8:00 p.m. Eastern. Joanna Beti joining us out of Dubai. Who knows what's going to happen later on? I How do you position for this? I don't know. I don't think anybody in the market really knows what's going to happen in 12 hours 41 minutes. So, what are the key questions you've got to try and answer in terms of the way that you position your portfolio around this? Let's try and answer that question. Peter Schaffer, global macro strategist at RBC Capital Markets joining us around the table. Good morning, Peter. &gt;&gt; Good morning. &gt;&gt; What do you do? What are the key questions you think the market has to try and come up with answers to? We don't know what's going to happen on the ground. &gt;&gt; But what happens in portfolios? So I I mean first of all when you look at the situation we had identified sort of three key questions. Two of those I think we have answered. How long is the war going to last? Too long. Um is there going to be is there going to be damage? Yes there is. We know to the infrastructure on the ground but also through key um uh key supply chains. And I think the third question and I think this is then going to the heart of how do you position your portfolio is is this going to be at the end of the day inflationary or is it going to be demand destructive? That question I think we cannot answer yet but I think the market &gt;&gt; how different does the portfolio look in those two scenarios. &gt;&gt; Well I mean if you're in a in an inflationary scenario um then you probably get rate hikes potentially quite a lot. That's typically bad for pretty much every asset class out there. Um, if it's a demand destructive one that potentially might even get rate cuts, that's a very different environment. Particularly fixed income space, particularly rates are going to do quite well. It's a typical riskoff environment where risky assets are going to do poorly, but the the rate space is probably going to do much better. Um, and you have at least some asset that gives you a positive return. &gt;&gt; Peter, good morning. Is there a chance we get both of those one after the other? The inflation first, then the demand destruction after. &gt;&gt; It is possible. uh you could even have both at the same time which is the stackflationary force which we didn't really have since the 1970s which is sort of the boogeyman for everyone because nobody really knows how to deal with it. Um the the but the the the thing is that you will not know for quite some time which kind of big macro scenario you're in. You can make assumptions, but you know, nobody knows. And we've seen that before, like in 2008, um, in 2011, the ECB, for instance, um, infamously hiked interest rates just to cut them later on as they realized it was a policy mistake. Um, but we don't know that at Priori. And I think that's the problem. and they were worried about and policy makers maybe were their views clouded by that experience in 2022 when we saw inflation pick up and then they were hesitant and they didn't get out there in front of that inflation wave and were criticized by some for that and then again does that now hang over us the 2022 experience now hangs over the decision-m from policy makers &gt;&gt; well absolutely um I mean that's clearly a part of the debate as well when you listen carefully I mean I was at the ECB watches conference like two weeks ago you can clearly see that those two risks, one doing doing rate hikes to have them reverse later or one doing nothing, dithering and then later on being accused of being too late. Both of these risks are there for them. I mean, I tend to think that if they have to pick a poison, ultimately it's it's the central bank that has to go against inflation and they will do that and then more pub later if they have to. &gt;&gt; What's interesting about this is the market's basically positioned for neither of these outcomes. It's positioned for a good outcome. You look at the shape of the oil curve. You look at the shape of kind of how markets position going forward in terms of the way this basically just goes away. &gt;&gt; So how far away Peter is the market currently positioning now from the scenarios that you're talking about and are those scenarios becoming more central in the middle of the distribution of outcomes? &gt;&gt; So so a I think that's part of it. when you look at sort of the whole distribution of outcomes, I think the the sort of the average that we tend to see in the market might not be a true reflection of what ultimately might transpire. That's point number one. Point number two, though, I do think there is sort of that lingering hope that, you know, if everything goes away tomorrow, we might be back where we have been in 3 months time. I think that's a tad too optimistic in my mind. There's been too much. &gt;&gt; What does a tad mean? is a tad just a little bit. &gt;&gt; No, no, it's quite it's quite significantly um there's quite significant um destruction not only on the ground. I think it will take much much longer to get us back into a state where we could say all right now we can sleep easier even if the straight open tomorrow. &gt;&gt; Yes. Because the scarring would have been in terms of the infrastructure that's been hit already. So you started out by by talking about three different questions. One of them is around inflation and whether we get inflation or demand destruction. The others were that this goes on too long and that there is substantial damage. I suppose the thing is it could go longer than we even anticipated and and more could be destroyed than has already been destroyed. So even on those questions where we think we have answers, we we still don't really know the full extent, do we? &gt;&gt; That's absolutely true. And in fact, going back to what we discussed earlier or what you showed earlier with the clip, if we do get further escalation, it seems very likely that there's going to be more destruction. Um and then of course the the big thing is that even if you at one point then come to a kind of resolution that the actual fighting stops we know that the damage that has been done to the fields to the oil fields to the gas fields to the to the LG terminals to the refineries they can't be reopened tomorrow because the damage is there and it takes a long time to repair these things that means it's a longer destruction of the supply chains with all the following effects that you might be getting. What just going two or three months ahead and into a summer where there could be shortages if we do get what impact would rate if we're short of stuff? This is a question I keep hearing. If we're short of oil and and gas and all the other stuff that we need coming out of the gold fertilizer, what good does printing money do if we lower the rates of inflation? I mean the the only thing it well the only thing one of the things that it certainly does is it gives you some alleviation of pressures on other parts of your business. So this part is &gt;&gt; impaired the central bank can't do anything about it &gt;&gt; but they can do something on other parts. Um so I think that's the idea but of course one of the other things that we barely discussed these days is is what about other actors in the political sphere? What about the fiscal response? I mean, if there's a severe demand destruction, I could certainly see more fiscal coming through. We see that already. Um, you know, a lot of the European countries already have big &gt;&gt; deficits. I I know for sure. But going back to your question, what can central banks do? They could help with that as well to some degree. Or that's obviously not their mission, but you see where I'm going with this. So, &gt;&gt; monetary financing is where you're going. It sounds like &gt;&gt; I wouldn't say that, but um &gt;&gt; but others might. Um, but how how big does the gap need to be, Peter, between a hike and a cut for it to be explainable by events and not a policy mistake? &gt;&gt; I first of all, I think the the the time will need to pass. I think that's that's crucial. Um, so even if you get into a rate hiking scenario now, and let me sorry, let me say one thing, a priori, I think the central banks will try to to buy time. Um, we've heard that very clearly. I don't think anything's going to happen in April. Well, they're talking tough. They're raising the possibility, but because these uncertainties are there, &gt;&gt; I think they will be very very careful not to do anything too rash. Hence, I I tend to think that in April, PCB, the Bank of England, um they're not going to do anything. If the situation persists and we come into June and inflation is going to go even further up, um and we haven't seen the early outsets of demand destruction, I think that's a different story. But they will try to buy time. Okay. Okay. So, buying time could be certainly the the focus of monetary policy actors at the beginning of this year. Peter, thank you very much. Thank you for joining us. Peter Shafick, Markets. Uh coming up on the program, we will take a deeper dive into energy markets. We will speak to Carol Nlay who is CEO of Crystal Energy. Uh she joins us to discuss the risks uh posed in energy markets of course as President Trump ramps up his rhetoric once again towards Iran. That conversation coming up next. This is Bloomberg. Tuesday the 7th. Welcome back. 30 minutes the start of equity trading here in Europe. Cash equity trading. Uh we've now got just under 12 and a half hours until the Trump deadline. That's basically what everybody's thinking about today. That's going to dominate the agenda, the narrative as we go through the rest of the session. Europe was closed yesterday. So, a little bit of catchup in some ways versus the Friday session needs to be played out. US futures are probably better read on what's happening. Um the S&amp;P is down by 3 4/10en of 1% in terms of the session that we are watching at the moment. Europe, I think you get a better read kind of half an hour in maybe. &gt;&gt; Yes. Yes, absolutely. Because that that US futures picture does look more negative than those futures we're showing there on the screen. Let's pivot to the bond market story, guy, where we have yields going higher. And the bond markets have been really interesting through all of this because there's been very much a knee-jerk instant near-term focus on inflation risks that sent yields higher as we know through the early part of March. Just the last week of March, we started to see that narrative change a little bit with yields coming down as the market started to focus on growth and maybe bonds as a bit of a haven play in the context of growth scares. That's not today's story. Today's story is back to thinking about inflation and with oil prices higher. Maybe that makes sense. We've got French yields up four basis points, Italian yields up four basis points at the 10-year horizon. &gt;&gt; But these are the two scenarios that Peter was just Peter was just talking about. The market kind of oscillates between one and the other. Do I worry about growth? Do I worry about the impact that that higher oil prices are going to have as a tax or do I worry about as an inflation? But maybe as he says, you can have both at the same time. &gt;&gt; You can have both at the same time. You can have one after the other. They could come in different orders and different geographies depending on your dynamics and how much you're exposed to the Straits of Hormuz. But let's get some detail on the oil industry, shall we? And the and the current situation in the Persian Gulf. Oil prices are higher for a third day as President Trump escalated threats to obliterate key Iranian infrastructure if his terms are not met uh before today's deadline. Iran has warned that it would respond by ramping up its own attacks on energy infrastructure in the Persian Gulf. Uh let's speak now to Carol Nacklay who is the CEO of Crystal Energy. Carol, really nice to have you with us and get your perspective. We started the last conversation with our guests talking about all the many things we do not know about what is going to happen over the next 24 hours, 48 hours in the Persian Gulf. So I wonder if actually it might be instructive to take a step back and think about the damage that has been done already. When you look at the damage already to infrastructure, uh when you look at the limitations on getting supplies out of the straight of Hormuz, even if things turned around today, Carol, what kind of summer are we looking ahead to in Europe? What kind of uh um impaired market, if you like, are we looking at? &gt;&gt; I mean, there's always a silver lining in any in every crisis. And I think here we have to be careful not to uh underestimate the ongoing conflict in the Middle East and the impact on energy markets but also not to paint a really uh drastic picture because the major disruption that we are seeing today in global oil markets are not because of facilities unable to produce or we have damage to oil fields and pipelines being blown and ports being damaged. is primarily a logistical question because of tankers not being able to say through freely to the straight of hormos. So that is the main uh key aspect. Of course there has been some damage but does that mean we're going to lose even if there is let's say a peace deal today or tomorrow we're going to lose entirely unable to replace the 15 million barrels or 20 million barrels of oil that would go through the straight of Hormuza. I don't think that is the question. Already some of that oil is being diverted across Saudi Arabia to the Red Sea. Other oil as our tankers are also saying to the straight of Hermos. So that's why yes, we're not going to go back to normal situation immediately. But I don't think it's going to last for much longer as many are fearing today in the market. &gt;&gt; Okay, Carol. So let me focus in on that logistics uh challenge if that's not to underplay it that that the straight of four news has become. We did see over the weekend that we saw some uh certain flagged vessels being able to pass. Not very many but there were some maybe from India, from Iraq. Uh talk of Malaysia I think as well able to get some some vessels through. How much difference can get that kind of strategy opening things up bit by bit. How much difference can that make Carol? &gt;&gt; You know we say every little thing every little thing helps. So in that respect there's a clear message here that when people talk about opening the straight of hormones or um the closure of the straight of hormones I think that is a very dramatic picture because when you hear of tankers saving through the rate of hormones you understand it's not the closure we're talking about but rather control and the Iranians have the upper hand here. So they are sending a clear signal to the rest of the world. They don't need to close it by putting military um uh there and then stopping tankers from sailing through, but they are able to dictate who is going to go through. And that also gives us an idea about a potential deal if it happens in the in that region. Are they going to end up having a bigger say in terms of which ships are going to cross through the straight of Hmus? Are they going they going to impose some additional charges? What kind of deals will their neighbors accept to get their oil through the tanker? So these are the questions that we should also be thinking about not just whether we're going to have a deal and whether we're going to go back to normal because if the Iranians will maintain this kind of control I feel there will always be a risk premium attached to oil coming out of that region. &gt;&gt; Carol good morning it's Guy. Is the futures market working properly because there is a very very sharp drop off in terms of prices for crude just even a few months out. Is that real? I mean it's difficult to say what is real what is not in the middle of uncertainty the level of uncertainty you are facing I mean just look at this deadline that has been imposed I was looking at your screen I could see the timing running down and then I was thinking about a political bomb and when you do have this kind of deadline in an already stressed market uh then all what you are adding is just more uncertainty more volatility and difficult to have a clear path ahead at the moment I see people are feeling that maybe a deal is unlikely to happen and we're going to see a worsening of the situation, higher pressure on prices, but definitely more volatility. But I see fewer people are putting hope in terms of getting the deal. But at the moment, we are all sailing through a very thick fog and unable to see what's what could happen that deal. &gt;&gt; But is the is the is the only price of crude that I need to be looking at right now crude that actually can be delivered? And there's a lot of futures market out there that futures markets out there for various crude contracts. But it strikes me the only price that's worth paying attention to is a is a barrel of oil that I can get and I'm wondering what you are seeing in terms of the pricing around a barrel of oil that I can actually get. I saw that some people are reporting about the delivery price exceeding for example the highs that we saw perhaps few years ago. But that is again uh that is not a good um um metric to compare where prices would go. I would stick to what the prices the market the physical market is telling me today uh simply because of this level of uncertainty and we have to be careful not to compare for example the delivery of a certain crude at a certain point of time with what happened in a certain year because we're not comparing apples with apples. uh we're comparing delivery prices for certain crude today with for example the market price that was affect a achieved at a certain months many years ago and that creates this kind of um if you want like an overstatement of the current crisis and describes more armagadon or huge collapse in markets which we don't have at this stage. If anything, it actually cause panic buying. And panic buying is the last thing you want to have in a stress market because that also puts an artificial pressure on prices, upward pressure. &gt;&gt; So car so Carol, you clearly don't see a kind of Armageddon scenario for oil markets. Um, thinking about demand measures here, we've seen Asia in various places taking some quite substantial measures to try and limit demand for energy products. Europe has not really been doing that. very tentative signs in the aviation sector maybe in Italy over the weekend but would you expect more of that in Europe to come? &gt;&gt; Well, you know for demand management policies you would expect that especially in countries which are most exposed. So we saw that a lot in Asia because you do have a lower purchasing power, lower income for households and this the share of what we call you know maybe energy poverty is more widespread in Asia. when I think about Vietnam, Philippine, even Pakistan that you do have in Europe. But you're absolutely right in pointing at this kind of divergence between Europe and Asia because definitely I don't see the same sense of panic in Europe that I saw in 2022 when Russia invaded Ukraine. Does that mean that Europe is still seeing uh that the crisis in the Middle East is going to be resolved soon? I'm not quite sure. or whether maybe they are better prepared after the hit that they took in 2022 in terms of diverting their diversifying their supplies and also their their energy mix. So, but definitely we see a big difference between Asia's and European reaction. &gt;&gt; Carol, in terms of product, where are the biggest shortages going to be and where do you think they show up first in Europe? Is it diesel? Is it jet? Where do you see the biggest challenge line? I would say for Europe particularly diesel and jet fuel seem to be the most vulnerable products. Diesel in particular because again they they Europe used to rely heavily on Russian uh exports on Russian imports to Europe. But that kind of dried out almost compared to what they used to consume. So the vulnerability of Europe is definitely in terms of diesel and jet fuels. But at the end when we say vulnerability is not that they are unable to secure the barrels. They will always secure those volumes at a certain price. So, we're going to see an intensifying uh competition with other buyers in Asia and elsewhere. And the longer the situation in the Middle East continues, the conflict and the uncertainty continues, then the more we're going to see an upward pressure on prices in Europe and elsewhere. &gt;&gt; So, we're not going to run out in Europe. We're just going to have to pay a lot for it potentially. Carol, great to catch up. Thank you very much indeed for joining us. Carol Natley, CEO of Crystal Energy. Um, let's talk about what's coming up next. some former White House officials certainly warning about the long-term impact of the Iran war on &gt;&gt; A lot of the supply chains are only now beginning to feel the increase in prices. And so uh unless there's a very very rapid uh lifting of the clouds from the Middle East, uh I think we have to expect um ongoing probably increased inflation uh as the uh the effects uh come in in various time scales. uh we'll see uh we are seeing various commodities going up now &gt;&gt; inflation Ernest Mus the former US energy secretary talking about what he sees coming forward uh we'll have more on the economic fallout from the global energy crunch later in the program this is Bloomberg Welcome back to the program. This is the opening trade, Tuesday, the 7th of April. And the futures picture actually deteriorating a little bit the closer we get to the European trading day. Uh looking to catch up a little bit with the states of yesterday, but then US futures looking negative. So the market uh torn in that sense and Euro stocks 50 futures entirely flat now guy. &gt;&gt; It's going to be interesting to see what chip stocks do today. Samsung overnight probably the big story in that space actually quite a whippy session in terms of Samsung shares. As you can see they're now down in negative territory despite the fact that actually the earnings numbers smashing expectations eight-fold leaping quarterly profits basically underscoring as if we didn't know robust demand for AI memory chips. Uh, as the AI boom certainly continues to reshape the global tech landscape, one of the industry's most important players here in Europe, you could argue, listed in the United States, is making a series of dramatic pivots. ARM, of course, long known for powering the world's smartphones, is now betting its future on the cloud, data centers, and of course, the explosive growth of generative artificial intelligence. Tom McKenzie has been out speaking to CEO Rene. &gt;&gt; I think it's very significant. when we looked at the opportunity particularly in the data center uh with the growth of AI but more specifically Agentic AI and Agentic AI quadruples the demands on CPUs we looked at two things number one this is a market that's heavily underserved at the moment and number two customers are asking us would you deliver and build a chip for us we now have our first product it's ARM's product it's the ARM AGI CPU uh designed by ARM built by TSMC sold to customers like Meta or SAP or Cloudflare, Open AI, a litany of customers that we've announced and the demand has been extremely strong. &gt;&gt; What is the potential size of this new revenue stream of this new market for you? &gt;&gt; Uh when we look at the royalties uh in our traditional business model associated with the cloud and AI business, it's about a $3 billion TAM. when we look at the uh potential of this product line maybe stretching out four or five years it's north of hundred billion dollars. So it is a it is profoundly uh different in terms of the scale. It puts us in a whole different uh zip code. When do you think you'll be able to declare victory? What for you is success? You've again shifted arm to have a laser-like focus on data centers to build out that market. When can you call that a win do you think? Well, on one level, I think it's a win now in that we've got real customers. Meta, SAP, Cloudfare, Cisco, as I mentioned. Uh, so on level zero, it's a win. Our first product is out. Uh, the first version is functional. It works. Customers have placed orders and we're going to be shipping towards the end of this year. Going forward, I think there's lots of opportunity to do to do much much much more. uh because again back to the AI demand uh AI is the technology that touches the entire planet whether that's in the data center whether it's in a robot whether it's in a small wearable device and ARM has a very very unique opportunity to address to address all of those areas whether it's a a piece of IP whether it's a comput subsystem uh or a chip so the the aperture for the opportunity for ARM has just got much much much wider I mentioned north of hundred billion for this uh AGI chip AGI CPU product. But if we think about the broader market, it could be north of a trillion dollars that we could address. &gt;&gt; Big numbers arm CEO Rene speaking there of course to Tom. Reminder, you want to watch more of that interview, you can do so the next episode of Blueber Tech Europe this Friday, 8:30 a.m. UK. Let's turn our attention to the broader markets then as we watch for any read across from those Samsung numbers that guy was talking about. That's one theme that we'll be watching this morning as we get ready for the start of the European trading day. Let's spend three minutes on the markets with our uh executive editor for Asian markets, Paul Dobson, who is with us now. Paul, very good to have you on the program. So, we're waiting for this deadline uh that equates to 1:00 a.m. in the morning Wednesday for Londonbased uh viewers. um earlier of course for for for the uh later sorry for the Asian uh based viewers. What is the market's mood do you think as we head towards yet another deadline from President Trump? &gt;&gt; Yeah, yet another deadline is about right. Good morning Anna. Uh so we heard it um on Bloomberg television earlier from the Singapore foreign affairs minister saying I really don't think that the market is priced for a worst case scenario at this moment and I think that investors would echo that sentiment. Um partly uh because the risk is that a deal could be done and then the market rapidly starts to look like it's in a slightly better position and people don't want to be humongously short and carry the risk of that snapback. partly because what is a worst case scenario at this point? In any case, you know, if we're doing that sort of um you know, uh make things worse in order to make them better afterwards kind of uh repeated sort of um tactic that we've seen from Donald Trump, then maybe again, you know, the worst case scenario isn't necessarily what the market needs to price in. What we do see though is things like overnight FX implied volatility not at extreme levels by any case. And so that tells you that although the market is very respectful of what could happen after the deadline, it doesn't really know what to expect and what that will do to markets either. So on balance, it sounds like you think we're positioned for taco. &gt;&gt; Uh well, I I wouldn't use that uh phrase necessarily given the severity of the situation, but I think that the market is looking out for the risk of some kind of a a peace deal or treaty at some point. I honestly think you know if you survey financial markets or or at least if you survey the physical world more uh guy actually for the fact that we're into the sixth week of this conflict really the impact on the real world has been relatively limited I would say yes emerging markets for example working four day uh weeks in some places we've had some airports uh grounding aircraft and those kinds of things but really uh sort of um uh the the the overall impact has been pretty regionalized and hasn't been widespread. I think you know if things were to actually stop uh working altogether, if we ran out of uh fuel at the pumps, those kinds of things, then you would start to see the market much more rapidly pricing and a much worst case scenario for the global economy. &gt;&gt; Yes. And whether we run out of things or just pay more for them, Paul, will have a real impact on on the macro conversations we'll be having. With that in mind, we're looking ahead to inflation data out of the states uh later on this week. Is that going to cut through? I mean, it fits with the market narrative. It's what we're nervous about, inflation and of course growth. &gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. And it's going to confirm our worst fears based on what analysts uh are forecasting with expectations that we'll see a month-on-month 1% uh uh inflation rate in the US. You know, this is the thing that all of the policy makers around the world are having to contend with right now. Do they look through the risk of a what could be a temporary inflationary shock from oil prices or do they react to it now and try and stifle the um uh the the the potential outbreak of inflation? You see different central banks moving in different ways that's moving exchange rates and influencing bonds uh short-term long-term and the shape of those yield curves. So really interesting for traders to be watching. &gt;&gt; Paul, thank you very much. Bloomberg executive editor for Asia Markets Paul Dobson. Let's have a look at the stocks we're watching then. Of course, oil will be in focus. Charlie Wells is watching that and other sectors. Uh, good morning Charlie. &gt;&gt; Good morning, Anna. So, that is right. European oil majors in focus this morning given the fact that it is such a headline driven market. That's a lot of the commentary that we've been hearing this morning. Headlines really matter, especially after this holiday weekend and given all of that geopolitical tension and that deadline. We were just looking at some of the share prices of those European oil majors. They are up. But the question here really is duration, right? How long does this go on? How does that oil price trickle through? And Trump has been talking a lot about infrastructure. Does that start to to shake in to does that start to shape the narrative for these oil companies? Also headlines, very different type of headline, but uh Bill Aman's Persing Square offering to buy Universal Music Group. We're going to want to watch that because the offer here is coming at a 78% premium to the last traded share price. Now, UMG has actually been under pressure over the past year. There's been a lot of concerns in the music industry about AI and the like, but Bill Aman saying that he really sees um that share price kind of not related to the music industry. Of course, that's Taylor Swift's record label. Important to mention that as well. And then we got to watch chips as well because we had that blowout beat from Samsung, but we've also had some of the concerns about legislation on ASML and a number of these other suppliers. So a beat, but again some legislative questions coming for a lot of these European semi-manufacturing equipment suppliers. &gt;&gt; Uh thank you very much Charlie with of course the essential Taylor Swift link into the UMG story. So we'll certainly keep that in mind. Uh Charlie mentioning there then oil we need to keep a close eye on and a host of other sectors. Guy I also wonder whether you know we've seen some days when we've seen a spike up even a slight one in these yields on government bonds that sometimes that reads across into the banking sectors. So we'll watch that one and maybe even to other rate sensitive sectors as well. &gt;&gt; What feels slightly different about this week as opposed to previous weeks is previous weeks we've started strongly and then faded. Yes. &gt;&gt; This feels more cautious than maybe it has on previous weeks coming into the beginning with this deadline sitting over us. &gt;&gt; Yes. I wonder if the fact that the deadline sits on Tuesday is just, you know, reshaping everything as a result because you're right, we did some analysis that showed Monday, Tuesday often quite strong, tailing off risk appetite towards the end of the week, but that's not how this week is is playing out. Um, and so our focus will be on that deadline later on today, 8:00 Eastern time, &gt;&gt; 12 hours and 5 minutes away. Uh, we got 5 minutes to go until the European markets open. That's the futures position room. We were closed yesterday. US futures a bit more negative. This is Blueber Tuesday morning. Welcome back. Couple of things you need to know. Europe was closed yesterday. US was open. Wasn't much of a session. the ISM services data actually was a standout story coming out of yesterday's session. Uh but it was a bit of a mess session. I think largely on low volume. I don't think you can really take much of a signal from it in terms of the way the market is thinking about the rest of the week because we're coming up against this big Trump deadline. Um European futures are signaling a more positive picture than US futures right now. Maybe US futures are a better signal, but European futures are actually fairly flat as you can see. Euro stock 50 up by 210 of 1%. I think give it a few minutes. We'll get into the cash session and then we'll probably get a better read on what is actually happening. But today definitely Anna feels like it is dominated by that deadline coming up in what 12 hours time. &gt;&gt; Yeah, absolutely. So 12 hours until that until that deadline. Um let us think about where we might see some movement here on these European equity markets. Then oil majors could be in focus. Of course we do have higher oil prices. We don't know where things will go in the next 24 hours, but $111 a barrel is where Brent trades. Um chip stocks could be in focus as well. We've heard from Samsung, some really positive stories coming out of the AI story. Memory prices holding up at Samsung delivering incredible operating profit there. Um, lots of demand for Claude over at Anthropic. So, all of that narrative seems to be intact despite higher energy prices. Interesting in that context that NASDAQ futures are down by half a percent. So, it's not really cutting through uh the the broader geopolitical uh story that UMG in focus over in the Netherlands as well. This is Universal Music Group receiving a bid from Persing Square and this one could be a big jump at the open then guy as the offer which is cash stock is much higher than where we closed on when was it? Thursday. &gt;&gt; Thursday. Yeah, long weekend. Very long weekend which you've now got to kind of bring to a conclusion. European cash is about to open. We're expecting a mildly positive start. Let's take a look at the numbers and see what happens. Then let's kind of come back to it in half an hour's time and figure out uh what the real picture looks like cuz US futures are quite negative. The Footsie 100 P probably pulled in lots of different directions this morning, but certainly be interesting to see how see the those all majors trade as Anna was saying. Stock 600's up by around 2/10 of 1%. All the while though, remember that you've got negative US futures and we've got this deadline coming. A lot of people really looking at today as a very sort of binary day. Which way do we go? It's either destruction or we get a let off. How do the market how does the market trade in that kind of scenario? The CAS's up by 4/10en of said very decent performance there. The IBEX up by onetenth of 1%. We're about to get Spanish and I think Italian PMI data as well. So, watch out for that. The DAX is yet to open. We'll leave that unpark that for just a moment. The AX could be interesting today. Not only have you got the chip story ASML post Samsung, how does that look in Europe this morning? Plus, also, as you say, Anna, that music story front and center. Taylor Swift, I'm sure, paying attention to the story. &gt;&gt; Yes, I'm sure she's watching. Uh let's have a look at where we are on the sector breakdown because the technology story does stand out but not necessarily in a direction we would anticipate. Interesting how the appreciation of what we heard from Samsung changed through the Asia session. So the stock was up pretty strongly on the back of quite incredible operating profit numbers and and and and that was a positive but then we saw that change as we went through the Asia session and maybe it is that change that we're picking up on here in Europe because ASML down by 3.4% 4% uh which is interesting. The broader tech sector are being dragged down a little by that. It's not everybody though because I mean ASML makes the chip making machinery. Some of the chip makers not doing too bad. So we see ST Micro for example going up by 3/10 uh sorry 3%. So maybe this is uh more to do with where the costs and benefits of of growth within the sector lie. Media is the best performing sector up by 9/10en of 1%. I doubt we have and know we don't have an opening price on Universal Music Group yet, but that hasn't stopped others within the space going higher. So, some of the advertising businesses are going higher this morning. That seems to be the best performing right now. I'll just flag, we mentioned 12 hours. It's longer than that, isn't it? Until the deadline because it's 8:00 Eastern time, uh, which is, uh, 1:00 a.m. Wednesday morning that we have to wait for that deadline to expire. &gt;&gt; Yeah, looking forward to that. Not looking forward to that. We'll wait and see exactly what happens. The AML story is fascinating. 363% to the downside. &gt;&gt; That's a big I just had a look at AMA to see what was going on there. I can't see any logical reason why other than Samsung that stock will be hit as hard as it necessarily is. &gt;&gt; Yeah, big move on a for a big stock which as uh then a big impact on the AEX. Let's talk to Ban Bua, chief strategist at UBS, who can help us understand the fog uh that I keep seeing referenced in lots of research reports right now, of course, in relation to the geopolitics uh but also some of the other stories that we're throwing around. We will we will no doubt come to the technology story in our conversation, uh Banu, but your your big picture view of the world right now. Uh risk appetite seems to be well, is it holding up better than you would have expected given the stakes, given the rhetoric we've seen coming out of the White House over the past 48 hours or so? &gt;&gt; Do you know what I going into this um conflict in Iran, the market was playing early cycle, right? Because growth was coming in better than expected and inflation was coming in lower than expected. So you saw a rotation towards cyclicals, you saw rotation towards lowquality companies, you saw rotation towards small caps, you saw rotation towards the rest of the world. Now those rotations have not yet been taken back. Right? So so the market is still positioned in that. So it's it's been compromised modestly, but it's not really been taken back. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So I think the market is very clearly expecting a very low length of conflict. So they're expecting this conflict to get resolved very quickly. You can't blame them because I mean this is this has been the template since co this has been the template since Russia Ukraine and this was also the template of liberation day last year but that's the template that the market is using that this is going to be a way this is going to be done with in in two 2 to 3 weeks time. If you look at 6 months Brent it's trading 35% below a spot. So, so the market's expecting a pretty speedy resolution. So, it's not completely given up on that early cycle trade. And I think that's where the risks lie. We have this deadline, you know, later today. We don't really know. I mean, this could turn on on on a dime, but this could also drag out for much longer. So, I think the asymmetries is what we have to look for. I think there are clear asymmetries in the fixed income market within the equity market. I think and especially the credit market, I think investors are taking the glass half full interpretation, which is um which is uh worrying to say the least. &gt;&gt; It's worrying. Okay, we'll come to some of those asymmetries as you point out. Um and and and maybe we'll start with equity markets then. So if this does look as if it's going to go on for longer, Banny, then you'd expect what cyclicals, small caps, all the things that were starting to do well at the beginning of the year to do worse to to carry on doing worse. &gt;&gt; Indeed. And what that means, Hor, is that it's not just the headline index coming down, but the losses to investors could be more than that because the rotations that were completely they were invested in, those are the rotations that have to be given back. This is not a world in which if the growth inflation mix and I you know I keep going back to this phrase growth inflation mix and some people sort of extend that into stackflation but even if the growth inflation mix just deteriorates that's not a good world for equities that's not a good world for small cap stocks that's not a good world for lowquality stocks that's exactly the kind of broadening trade that everyone was engaging in you you were moving away from the US to emerging markets you were moving away from the US to Europe those are the trades that gets compromised it's not just about the headline level the headline will get compromised, but it's those rotations that I think we need to worry about. &gt;&gt; And that's right, 17 hours until the deadline roughly. My math is wrong. How do I What do I do as risk as a risk manager with these kinds of events? Really binary could go either way. I What do you do? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean I I think the risk of sounding slightly technical. I think you have to take a look at which positions are most convex. So for instance, if you are beginning to price in three hikes for the ECB already, if you're beginning to price in no cuts for the Fed at all, I think that's beginning to get asymmetric. It's very unlikely that the Fed ECB hike six times. Uh and it's more likely that the ECB does nothing. So I think in the fixed income markets in the front end there is value being created particularly in the UK particularly in the US we do think that these are places where the markets are pricing this like it was 2022 where you price up all central banks together it's a very different situation the labor market's in a very different place particularly in the US and in the UK European labor market still doing slightly better so I think fixed income is where there's some value emerging particularly in the front end in the equity markets I think This is a time to play defense, right? This is pro perhaps not a time to sort of run for the hills and go all into cash, but this is not a time to be in deep cyclicals because even if you get some resolution, temporary resolution in the conflict, it's not clear where oil prices are going to settle. You're not, it's very unlikely that you're going in a world where energy security is going to be the key theme, many in economies are going to be looking to build their reserves. And so the demand for oil is going to outweigh the the the supply of oil for some time. This is very different from where we were just about 2 or 3 months back which at that time there was a surplus in the oil market and it looked as though the straight of hormones would never be shut right this is the 38th day as we're speaking of the straight of hormones being shut and we're losing at a minimum we think of 9 million barrels a day just for comparison during Russia there was a fear that we would lose 4 million barrels a day a fear that didn't come to fruition right so I think this is a time we have to in the equity markets play defense &gt;&gt; do If we're playing defense, does the amplitude of the moves get bigger from here? I is today could be a tacko move, today could be a I don't know, but do the ampl if I'm trying to avoid getting stopped, which feels like it's happening either end. &gt;&gt; The the possibility of nonlinearities like I'm paying particular attention, we were discussing this during the break, we're playing particular attention to the products, right? Because the products smell what's going to happen to crude. And if you look at jet fuel, if you look at NAFTA, if you look at diesel, all of these are telling you that there's a significant shortage, physical shortage of oil coming through. So I I think that if if you don't get this resolved soon, you could begin to see things breaking, not just in terms of industries. Oil is used in a lot of industries. This is this is not just about transport. This is about glass. This is about paint. This is about other synthetics. You could begin to see nonlinearities in production. You could begin to see nonlinearities in price. And that's why I think this is a time when we want to be looking at previous episodes where inflation was high, growth was low, and those are episodes during which the equity market did play defense. We're not quite doing that as yet. &gt;&gt; And panic, are you dancing to are you thinking then more about the price we'll have to pay for these things or the availability of them? And do you does that shape the investment thinking? &gt;&gt; So Z, I think it's going to be both like for NAT gas it is the availability, right? And thankfully this is so far not morphing into what looks like a food inflation shock because that would be a a completely different issue because if through fertilizers through nitrogen fertilizers if this went into food you would have to worry much more right because then you you'd have to worry about um purchasing power for the consumer across the world but so far wheat prices are up smalls rice prices are actually down so I think this is in terms of nat gas this is going to be an availability question but I think across all products this will be mainly a a price hit. So for Europe so far this has been mainly a price hit. For parts of Asia this is going to be both quantity and price. &gt;&gt; So So how big what do the tales look like at the moment? How far apart are they? How different do the scenarios look like? How do I build a portfolio that can cope? Or do I just have to take a view that I'm either over here or I'm over here? You first have to think about where oil price could get to under what circumstance. Right? So if the straight of hormones does not reopen and if we have the situation that we have today by the end of April then the possibility of oil prices going somewhere between 130 and 150 becomes very high. If it extends beyond that I think the possibility of the global economy going through significant stress which is recession becomes very high. Right? So at this minute your hedges I think are going to be in fixed income which is you know to receive uh in the front end in some places where you're overpricing things or or to be even long the long end because gold is not behaving as a hedge right now. Go gold isn't doing that because gold itself went through such significant volatility that it's hard for it to be a diversifier at a time like this. M so I think fixed income would be a hedge and again the more utilities of course energy itself but utilities the consumer staples those are the areas that I think we will have to play defense in right now it is it is very binary which is why we're looking for the asymmetries we're looking for the more convex trades and I think most of these sit where what is the left tail trade here I think credit has not even begun to move well it has moved but it has moved very modestly &gt;&gt; and I was going to ask you about this subject because if we're looking at a world where we could if this goes on for another month go to 130 150 on oil prices recession risk is much higher obviously that's only a month away if we carry on as we are uh even without maybe some major escalation from here um does it make sense that credit is as as relaxed as it is especially also with the private credit drama which could maybe infect a close related asset class &gt;&gt; so once again I think this is where the asymmetries are if things go poorly credit will do much worse than it will do Well, if things go well, &gt;&gt; if things go well, then fixed income, especially the front end, will do much better than it would do badly if things go uh south. So, I think in that these are the asymmetries. I think the front end of the fixed income trade is your right tail trade. Credit I think is your is your left tail trade. Equities I think are closer uh because there still the kind of valuations. So far, the sell side hasn't been begun to put pen to paper in terms of downgrading the earnings. Of course, the sell side usually is upgrades. &gt;&gt; Uh there have been upgrades and these downgrades will be consequential when they come through. Why have there been upgrades? Because quite a few in the sell side think, oh, oil price going up. Usually that's a positive thing for the global economy. But you have to you have to separate demand pull from cost push inflation and usually it's demand pull margins are up, operating leverage is up. This is cost push inflation, right? This is this is a serious issue and I think we will begin to see the downgrades in across industrials, across consumer. The US consumer I think is on on on thin ice as well. Although that economy is least impacted. I think the US consumer is on thin ice too. &gt;&gt; Bar, great to see you. Thanks for stopping by to see us. Really appreciate it. Bombbo Asia, chief strategist over at UBS. Cors looks like this. Let's give you some uh numbers. Take a look at what's happening with ASML this morning. Uh it is down and down hard. Now look at that. 4.44% uh to the downside, which is interesting. Elsewhere, you're not seeing a great deal of movement. and all stocks certainly are on the move, but nothing else really moving significantly. Tech is certainly taking it on the chin this morning uh in a fairly big way. Let's answer some of the other questions around what is happening elsewhere in this market. Charlie Wells is here with the details. &gt;&gt; Guy, let's dig into some of those oil majors because we're seeing some divergence here, right? We are seeing Shell, BP, Total, Ecuador all in the green, but you see Ecuador up the most. They do not have exposure in the Middle East. So again, concerns and questions about the direction of travel for the sector, given concerns about duration given that looming deadline Trump has talked about in this Iran conflict. So again, green here, but we're early in the day. Let's flip and talk about tech because of course such a big story. We had that blowout earnings report from Samsung that really was kind of expected to lift a number of companies and we're seeing particularly in Europe given a lot of these European companies supply Samsung. That could explain some of the green here for ST Micro. They're up over 3%. But you see red on top of that. You see ASML really the kind of chip industry darling here in Europe down. That could be concern that we saw from some legislation coming out of the United States limiting ASM potentially limiting ASML's access to China. Let's again take a look at a totally different sector but really getting a lot of attention this morning that is Universal Music Group. So Bill Aman's hedge fund Persing Square offering to buy the world's largest music company. Shares are halted at Universal Music Group. That could potentially be a really hot stock this morning. And again looking at persing square down but if you look at the vendi this is an interesting one to watch because they have stakes in universal music group you want to look across the European market and think about who's got exposure to UMG because Persing Square was offering a 78% premium on the last close so one to watch another interesting one down well over 8% in the red that is 91 that is the asset manager they were downgraded to neutral by Bank of America so a lot of negativity surrounding 91 won this morning. &gt;&gt; Charlie, thank you very much. Charlie Wells joining us with the latest on some of the stocks that are moving around this morning. Coming up on the program, oil climbs for a third day as President Trump threatens to obliterate key Iranian infrastructure if his terms are not met before tonight's deadline. We discuss that. We'll get the details on that uh on those headlines. This is Bloomberg. Welcome back everybody. This is the opening trade, first day of the trading week here in Europe and the picture is pretty flat actually flat to the upside on the stocks Europe 600. are looking for some direction perhaps very wary of the headline risk associated with President Trump's threats around Iran. US futures in their uh their day ahead of course and they point lower down by 4/10 of 1% on e- minis. Let's just quickly uh update you on what's been happening with Universal Music Group. That particular share price is up by 14 a.5% right now. And we've had this of course in relation to uh Bill Aman's Persing Square pitching a merger with Universal Music Group. A combination uh with UMG that would move the listing into a US a US-based acquisition vehicle in a deal valuing the company at a 78% premium to its last closing price. the stock up that much though 14% right now guy &gt;&gt; we'll come back to that in just a second let's talk about what's happening with the chip space this morning's down really hard we got to figure out why what's going on with Samsung we got to kind of answer that question as well Neil Kaplan joins us now to try and assess some of what is happening here we'll get we'll get on to UMG in just a minute let's start off with Samsung these numbers look really good &gt;&gt; the stock's down I'm curious as to like do they need to do better like this these are amazing numbers &gt;&gt; to be honest they couldn't have done any better. The numbers were outstanding. &gt;&gt; Um, obviously it's preliminary, so we don't have the full details of why, but it's quite clear to most commentary this morning that about 90% of that eight-fold increase in in operating profit is due to memory and memory pricing. Now, we've seen the memory stocks obviously surge over recent months and we've seen, you know, expectations of spot pricing memory and the AI trade etc. being you know you this huge demand and that is not going to change no matter what happens in the Middle East to be honest. So you know Samsung is very much a case I think of the stock price reaction is travel and arrive. So you know I don't think that's necessarily a a real surprise. Could they have done any better? No because they're fully booked out for memory. &gt;&gt; Some people are saying probably for two maybe three years. &gt;&gt; Yes. So, so there so there's clearly a pos positive story for Samsung there and their profitability but that but that didn't necessarily turn into a share price strength uh for Samsung and then certainly into the European session there are other dynamics at play. It's not a read across directly from Samsung but European tech under pressure in particular ASML. Help us join some of those dots where we should. &gt;&gt; Yeah, sure. So ASML clearly is you know the bellweather tech company in Europe and it is literally behind uh you know the chips that that create the AI possibilities that are out there. So if we look at Samsung in terms of 15% of their cost of goods sold is ASML. So ASML would be a beneficiary of what's going on with Samsung and their profitability buying new equipment. The thing that's happening right now is a potential order of EUV equipment licenses for for these machines from ASML going into China potentially being stopped. Now, there are some of the commentary this morning suggesting that 15 to 20% of ASML's EBIC could be at risk if that was to take place. And I suppose taking a step back, this is likely just more of the battle between China and the US in terms of AI dominance, the chipsets that are that are critical to the AI movement. And at the heart of all of that is the EUV machines from ASML and that's why ASML's down this morning. &gt;&gt; What's Billman trying to do with UMG? &gt;&gt; Uh, I think he's trying to get Balor to the table. So, if you look at the transaction that's being proposed by creating a new vehicle that's listed in the US, and we'll hear more at I think it's 3:00 uh Central European time this afternoon when we find out the conference call. I think what he's trying to do, he's a frustrated activist. He's trying to get them to the to the table and suggest that the valuation of UMG could be far higher if there was a clearer structure in place. So I think that's what's behind behind this move and the big discount between the the proposed transaction value and UMG stock price action which is only up upteen today tells you that many investors are very skeptical of the real meaning behind this this this potential merger transaction. &gt;&gt; Yeah good to see thanks the analysis really appreciate it. Um while we've been talking the PMI data have come out of Spain. Um this this is the preliminary data. The headline reads look really good. So the services PMI 53.3 the comp numbers come through at 52.4. This is well up on where they were and well above expectations. Um however the commentary that comes with it is a little bit more cautious. So you got um you got S&amp;P talking about the idea that actually Spain's economy has experienced a weaker growth profile overall in the first quarter of 2026. So the cont seems to be yes these numbers look good but actually looking forward to the GDP the read across into GDP is not quite as good as maybe this data would seem to suggest. &gt;&gt; Okay and now we'll add that to what we already know about the manufacturing side in Spain. Uh let's get back to the broad story around oil because clearly this is going to have a an effect on all of these growth stories we're talking about. Oil is rising for a third day as President Trump escalated threats to obliterate key Iranian infrastructure as we know if his terms are not met before tonight's deadline. Iran has warned that it would respond by ramping up its own attacks on energy infrastructure in the Persian Gulf. Let's bring in Steven uh Bloomberg Steven Sapchinsky who leads our Asia energy coverage. Um, Stephen, give us your thoughts here. Uh, President Trump has talked about what he is going to do if if Iran does not meet his deadlines. Where do analysts expect oil to write to go from here? &gt;&gt; You know, I think there are two very stark outcomes that could happen here. Either one, they do meet the outcome and there's some sort of deal and we see oil prices deflate uh pretty significantly. Uh, two, we see that Trump kicks the can down the road. He's done that actually several times uh in the last uh week or two weeks. Um and it's possible he could again push back this 8:00 p.m. Eastern time uh deadline to later. Again, analysts see if that were to happen, you could see a deflation in prices, right? We're around $110 or $112 right now for Brent oil. Then you would fall down to closer to $100, maybe in the $90 range. Now, if you see Trump actually follow through and strike Iranian infrastructure, that's when we start to get into these really bull arguments that that you could see oil prices rise into $120 and above. And it all depends on the damage. And it also depends on what Iran does in response to that. Does Iran hit oil fields? Do they hit refineries? Do they hit neighbors that have gas plants? All of those things start to be brought into question. And it's it's difficult to say exactly how high oil prices could go. I guess the the it really depends on what would be damaged, but these are all theoretical situations. Uh the market um is right now just I think in a very much so wait and see situation. It's unclear what Trump will do, but uh but it it's there are many different scenarios, so it's hard to kind of place a bet. Stephen, two Katari LNG tankers tried to get through and they got turned back. What do we know? Where are those ships? Are they going to try it again? Right. So, for the first time yesterday, we saw loaded LNG shipments from Qatar attempt to go through the straight of Hormuz. They turned back late yesterday. Uh, according to our report out this morning, they didn't get approval from the Iranians to go through um their route, which is how most of the Iranian traffic had been going through. So because of that, that just illustrates how much control Iran has over the strait. &gt;&gt; Stephen, great stuff. Thanks for catching us up on what we need to know. We'll continue to monitor the situation. I've got my math straight now. 16 hours 33 minutes until uh we get to that deadline. Jane Kimot from the United Nations Association, UK is going to be joining us next to talk about that deadline that is coming up. This is This is the opening trade. 30 minutes into today's session. A few jobs to do here this morning for European equity markets. One of them is just hold tight. Wait until we hear from President Trump later on. He has this deadline 8:00 Eastern time. That translates to 1 in the morning Wednesday London time. So where will we be by then and what will follow crucially in the four or so hours that come after that? That's going to be what the market is very much watching for. So with all of that in mind, we don't really go very far. We catch up. We caught up a little bit with some of the optimism on the on the Wall Street trade of yesterday. Uh but that really pald in the face of US futures that were a little bit more negative. So DAX uh stocks are down. We see technology is one of the worst performing sectors. The AEX is weak with that in mind. But we do have some M&amp;A that's lifting the media sector. there. The cat caron getting the best of the gains for sure this morning up by 4/10en of 1%. Guy, what do you see beneath the hood? &gt;&gt; Biting if I'm being honest. Uh volume's a little bit soft if you look at kind of what's up and what's down. 344 up, 233 down. Slight advantage maybe to the upside yet most of the indexes are a little bit lower with the exception Karon certainly a story that stands out. So I think the market to Anna's point feeling very much like it's sitting on its hands right now waiting for that deadline uh that is coming towards us a little later on in terms of the leaders and the lagars. Let's talk about some of the gainers that we're seeing this morning. UMG unsurprisingly given what Bill Aman is up to is certainly one of the big gainers this morning trading at 1882. There's a uh there's an M&amp;A story there. There's a merger story. There's a frustrated activist in the form of Bill Aman maybe there. Anyway, that's all playing out. Shell is up by 1%. There's not a lot of a movement there. There's a defensive play maybe coming through into Nestle. It's up by 8/10en of 1%. Defense stocks though are definitely down as are chip stocks. ASML is the big story here. This relates less to what we're seeing in terms of the Samsung story and more to towards with what is happening in China uh and the exposure there. That stock is down by 4.27%. That's a heavy weight here in Europe. That's certainly a drag. Seams energy is also a lagard as well. Leonic defense stocks are generally down, but we're waiting to see how Italian politics plays out in the defense space. New CEO potentially coming through for Leonardo. We'll wait for that announcement, but that stock is down quite heavily this morning, down by 4.6%. Anna, &gt;&gt; let's get up to date on some of the other stories we're covering this morning. Guy and Jamie Diamond has warned that losses from private credit are likely to be larger than markets anticipate. In his annual letter to shareholders, the JP Morgan CEO cautioned that losses on leverage lending will be higher than expected in part because of quote modestly weakened credit standards. However, Diamond said private credit probably does not pose a systemic risk. Two Sigma Investments biggest hedge funds generated standout returns during a frantic month for markets. Sources say the firm's spectrum fund rose 2 and a half% last month while its absolute return fund gained 3%. Meanwhile, Tiger Global Management's main fund tumbled 7.3% while Maverick Capitals dropped 5% and Viking Global Investors lost 4%. President Trump is insisting any deal with Iran must include freedom of navigation through the straight of Hormuz. Uh President Trump has escalated before a deadline of 8:00 uh US time, that is Eastern Standard Time tonight. The president says the US could attack Iran's power plants, which would be a violation of the Geneva Conventions. No doubt a conversation that would uh would be ongoing if we were to see further attacks on that kind of infrastructure be it civilian be it dual use. Let us bring in Bloomberg's Jamaa Beta who can give us an update from Dubai of what is happening on the ground in the region. And Jamanna in terms of the the the conversation and the the story being told by the White House right now. On the one hand they're making progress towards a deal. They haven't got a deal yet with the Iranians but there is some progress being talked about. On the other hand, we see really escalatory language uh being used by the president. &gt;&gt; That's right. Well, a very tense 24 hours coming up over here in the region. And you don't need to go so far as to look back at the various comments that President Trump has made over the course of the weekend, including that very explosive true social post that he put up on Easter Sunday, essentially saying to Iran that unless they open up the straits and do so unconditionally, then the US would have no option but to strike back and to go after their power plants. And he then subsequently gave that deadline 8:00 p.m. Eastern time, which translates to around 3:00 4 in the morning over here in the region. Now what we do know as well is that there have been several mediation efforts going through spearheaded by Pakistan. The messages have been relayed to Iran. But what we understand from our reporting uh in the last 12 24 hours or so is that Iran have also come back with their list of counter terms and these are essentially non-starter terms for the US. Uh still a lot of daylight between the two sides. Iran is insisting that they want assurances that a war will never happen again. They're insisting on a full lifting of sanctions and a redefined protocol around the passes of of passage of ships through the straight of Hormos. Uh with New York Times reporting that they would look to levy a fee of up to $2 million per ship that is passing through, the proceeds of which would go towards war reparations. So all of these or at least the bulk of them uh are non-starters as far as the US is concerned. So still a lot of daylight between the two. And I will say that there is very little hope of a diplomatic breakthrough which takes us to the deadline tonight and the US president has an option. He well multiple options. He can follow through on those uh threats and really go after civilian infrastructure in Iran with more widespread intensity or he could once again push the deadline back which is something that he has done before or simply do nothing. in which case of course then it challenges a lot of the US credibility for some of these further threats and deadlines and ultimatums in the future. But what I will say is that Iran continue to be defiant. There appears to be little hope of a diplomatic breakthrough. And at the same time, just in the last couple of hours, IDF have also started warning Iranians not to use the railway system today until 9:00 p.m. Perhaps a signal of some further strikes to come. &gt;&gt; Joanna, thanks for the update. Greatly appreciate it. Jamanna Beti joining us out of Dubai. Let's bring in Jane Kinnamon, CEO of the United Nations Association UK. Jane, good morning. Jamanna, talking about the fact that maybe a breakthrough is feeling increasingly distant. Is that your assessment as well? &gt;&gt; I think that's absolutely right. There have been a variety of mediation efforts led by Pakistan uh by Egypt and previously there were efforts by Oman and Qatar but both of those states seem to have got quite discouraged. We don't see any imminent signs of a breakthrough. If anything perhaps mediators could try to slow down or limit the escalation. uh because right now we do seem to be in a pathway where escalation is increasing but there is a question about whether there's about to be a sudden dramatic escalation of the kind that Trump is threatening or whether we're going to be into more of a war of attrition. Meanwhile, there is diplomacy going on to try to mitigate some of the broader fallout for the global economy in terms of freeing up shipping through the straight of Hormuz. Now, Iran has got rather a taste for having control over the Strait of Hormuz. It's always been something that it has held out as a possible deterrent against being attacked, that it could disrupt shipping in this way. But it's now looking at it not only as a deterrent but as a future business model. The Iranians are starting to think that controlling this waterway could become a longterm source of revenue for them enabling them to reconstruct their economy despite the fact that they remain under sanctions. So while there have been efforts to mediate between the US and Iran on the issues between them, there are also international diplomatic efforts including at the UN to try to figure out a way to stop having the strait and the global economy held hostage to this war. &gt;&gt; It's speculation, but what is therefore given all of that your best assessment of of where we are in a month? because people are saying basically by the end of this month if it hasn't been resolved we are going to start to see shortages. &gt;&gt; Sadly I think it won't be resolved soon. I think that there may be opportunities to have a a temporary ceasefire. There may be opportunities to ease some of the pain on the global economy. But I do think that the most likely scenario is that this war will continue. Now, we have been hearing assessments in the US and in Israel that it's just a few more weeks. So, repeatedly we've heard estimates that maybe one, two, or three more weeks are likely timeline for this war. Of course, the war is expensive for everyone concerned as well. So, there may be a desire to wrap it up quickly. Um, but it also seems that the objectives uh of severely weakening the Iranian state are, you know, still some way off and so the the exit strategy isn't yet clear. That said, you know, there is still an option where Trump could choose something uh that would enable him to declare victory and walk away. And I think some of the American rhetoric about the Strait of Hormuz being more of a European and regional problem than an American problem that is designed to keep open the possibility that the US could at some point soon just say we've done enough damage and now our part in this is done. But they would be leaving an ongoing problem for the rest of the world to clear up around the disruptions to shipping. &gt;&gt; Yes. And the most recent message Jane Good morning. The most recent message seems to be that President Trump very much does care about reopening the straightfor. So we'll see uh what kind of messaging we get on that. Do we have more of an understanding of who the US is talking to be it via Pakistan or other routes? Do we have a sense Jane of who they are and does that help us understand how long this lasts? &gt;&gt; Well the you know Iranian decision makers have all changed in recent weeks because so many of them have been assassinated. So reports suggest that there is still uh a line of communication between Steve Wickoff, the president's envoy and the Iranian foreign minister Abbasaragi. They were negotiating when this war began. Uh but Pakistan seems to have a broader reach than that which is really important because Iran you know it is a theocratic and military regime in which the foreign ministry isn't by any means the most powerful actor. Pakistan has got quite wide ranging reach within Iran including to the Iranian revolutionary guard corps and that is really important because essentially they are the power behind the throne. We know that there is a new supreme leader, Muchaba Har, the son of the previous supreme leader. Uh but he is in hiding. There are many questions about his health. Uh and while he remains officially the head of state, it's really the the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps that are the main power and they have never engaged directly with the US. So the role of regional mediators who can speak directly to them is extremely important. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's important. That's important detail. Uh intens of people's expectations about the two sides here, Jane, and how long they will uh see it as as as advantageous to them to allow this conflict to carry on. The thinking seems to be the US does will not want this to carry on because of the political realities of the midterms approaching. on the Iranian side maybe they are um they are understanding more and more the power that they have with the straight of hormuz and maybe don't feel under so much time pressure what do you think about the various time horizons &gt;&gt; yeah I mean there is a complete imbalance between these two sides because at the end of the day for the Iranian political system this is an existential war for the US it is not an existential war they do have ongoing issues that they need to resolve with Iran But they don't, you know, it's not a direct constant threat to them in the same way. Uh so the Iranians will fight for as long as they possibly can. But it is also uh essential to kind of distinguish between the grandstanding and what is really happening. It may be that the Iranian political leadership is weaker than it appears. There is a huge amount of bravado coming from both sides and Iran has launched a a pretty effective communications campaign. You know, they're all over social media. They're using memes that are very well targeted to appeal to Western audiences. They're referencing Epstein. They're playing on the the cracks in the Western Alliance, you know, but but a lot of this is propaganda and political theater. uh and they must also be worried about what is going to happen to their ability to you know keep paying the army and and keep functioning economically. So this is exactly what mediators need to explore. Is there a near-term way out? Part of the problem of course is that Iran, you know, it was already attacked by the US and Israel last year in the so-called 12-day war. And so there is a view in Iran that if they have a ceasefire in the near future, that will only be temporary and the US and Israel could potentially come back for example after the midterms. Uh so that does increase their incentives to cause pain now to try to discourage potential future attacks on them assuming that the system does survive. &gt;&gt; Wow. After the midterms that adds a whole different time dimension. Jane, thank you very much for that. Thanks very much for joining us for the conversation. Jane Kinnammont, CEO of the United Nations Association UK. 8:44 here in London. Coming up on the program, we'll get back to the private credit conversation which has rumbling been rumbling along in the background for weeks and months. Of course, Jamie Diamond warning that losses from private credit are likely to be larger than markets anticipate. As Goldman says it's ready to pounce as retail rivals retreat. Uh there's a lot of nuance in these private credit conversations. We'll get to that shortly. This is Bling Back. It's 48 minute past the hour. Minutes past the hour even I'll learn to speak. Uh this is what markets look like here in Europe. I think holding action waiting for the Trump deadline a little bit later on. The can't answer is the sandout story up by around half a percent. Uh we've had strong Spanish PMI data this morning at least at a headline level. The same cannot be said for Italy. Its data is out. 48.8 is the services number. The comp number comes through at 49.2. &gt;&gt; Let us talk about the private credit story because it continues to rumble on in the background. The annual letter to shareholders written by the JP Morgan CEO Jamie Diamond. Touching on this subject, he's warned that losses from private credit are likely to be bigger than markets anticipate. H joining us now to analyze this and all of the other news flow from the private credit space, managing editor for private companies here at Bloomberg, Neil Kalinan. Nice to have you with us, Neil. So, Jamie Diamond sounding an an alarm bell, it would seem, around private credit, but I'm also reminded that just I think it was last month JP Morgan launched an interval fund to take advantage of opportunities in private credit. Um, so the conversation is a bit more nuanced than the letter would suggest, but what do we make of his letter? &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's Jamie Diamond is returning to one of his favorite themes. for for another kicking which is private credit. He obviously said last year that there was cockroaches in the credit markets that turned out to be true. A lot of things came out afterwards and now he's back again warning that there will be elevated losses in the leverage loan market when the credit cycle turns. And the reasons he picks for that are around the main reasons we know which is around pick weaker covenants which is very much true where borrowers were able to secure pretty much anything they wanted. uh around rising interest rates and spreads which of course is a concern given the war in Middle East at the moment and also around private credit ratings which is a widespread risk now or a risk threat now but at the same time buried in the letter he does say that they plan to increase their lending to private markets. &gt;&gt; Yes. So kind of a slightly slightly mixed message coming through not a mixed message coming through for blue owl. Tough day yesterday. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Record low. I was just looking at the short interest before I came on. Um the the shorts have started pairing them. They are profit taking at the moment. Depending on the index you look at, they they're down maybe as much as 10 percentage points. Uh that's on the short side. So some are taking the profits and perhaps thinking we're near the bottom there. But one of the problems obviously is the the software uh sus SAS apocalypse was the main driver of this. Now, war in the Middle East is going to become a bigger driver because once interest rates and spreads start to go up, some of those borrowers are really going to struggle to refinance, particularly at higher rates. Um, and so this could go on for a while longer, um, which perhaps we weren't expecting. &gt;&gt; So, their business models could still be under pressure, but also more expensive to service the debt that they've got. Um, let me ask you about another angle on the private credit story that's become really relevant. um a big Wall Street names, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, um well certainly Goldman Sachs talking about capitalizing on the exodus of retail investors. So where retail has blinked and said, "Oh, this isn't isn't for us." Uh there's there's plenty of other money that's willing to fill that gap, it seems. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And Bose Weinstein was the first to go into that and kind of offer in one of the blue funds to buy them at a massive discount. Um so it's no surprise you're seeing others, experienced credit investors will always take try to take advantage of retail money when it's panics once they think it's gone too far. They clearly believe that there will be opportunities coming out of this. The the converse of the rising interest rates being bad for borrowers is that if you do new lending and can get a higher spread, then you can actually get more profitable business. And so if you can identify the right companies, you can make a lot of money uh in the current environment and that's what some of these funds are planning to do is take advantage of that dislocation. &gt;&gt; Neil, do we have any idea how much money that would like to get out has still yet to get out? I.e. is still effectively being gated at this point in terms of its ability to to exit these funds. &gt;&gt; I I don't have a number, but basically if you look at most of those funds, it's double what's been redeemed so far. So, it's going to take several quarters for that to happen. Particularly given obviously these redemption requests were a month ago and everything has been somewhat negative for markets since then. Uh you would imagine those redemption requests will be ongoing. So, the next quarter is going to be interesting to see how bad they are. Um but at the moment there's no sign that there's going to be an ending to that. And then you look at some somebody like Blackstone where their uh staff members got involved and started investing in funds to help people. Um whether that will have to be replicated by some of the other funds as well. &gt;&gt; And Neil, if we're if we're sort of playing whack-a-ole here and retail investors can't get out through this hole, I'm not sure how long how well this metaphor is going to work, but if they can't get out through this particular hole, do they try others? You know, like the listed credit space. There's been people talking about how the gating may prevent this from really spreading in private credit, but it means other asset classes might be in focus. &gt;&gt; Yeah, definitely. I I think retail investors in general are starting to realize the dangers of private markets, which is what we've been talking about, which is that your money does get locked up for a long time and you may run into trouble redeeming it. But also if you are running for the exits in private credit that means the money has gone in the private equity side because the losses are that you're expecting have already been taken on the equity side. So the next leg perhaps will be whether people start trying to get out of private equity funds because they're worried they're so worried that actually it's the losses will be so big that it will affect the private credit. &gt;&gt; Okay, thank you very much. Uh Bloomberg Neil Kalinan with the latest on that story. Quick run through the week ahead. We have a focus on Hungary that runs through the week because JD Vance is arriving there today ahead of the elections that take place at the weekend. US earnings in focus with Exxon Mobile uh Delta Airlines also with numbers. Fed minutes midweek and then towards the end of the week we get further data out of the US with US CPI that perhaps the data point of the week at least. &gt;&gt; Yeah, a lot of inflation data out this week that we're all going to pay attention to given what's changed on that front. Um, let's talk to Adam Linton from the Bloomberg M Life team to get a sort of feel of how today is set up and what the rest of the week looks like. Let's start with today. What does how do you what do you do with today? This deadline coming at what 1:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean it does, as you mentioned your introduction earlier, it does feel like we're very much in somewhat of a holding pattern and you know markets are relatively cautiously optimistic. We're not, you know, down that much in the US and Europe was a slightly firmer open. And I think that's largely a byproduct of the fact that markets are just very much grown accustomed to the fact that Trump will push back these deadlines or even frontend run them hours before. So, you know, let's be on watch to see if he does a early morning truth social post. &gt;&gt; And it's also, you know, part of this like reflexive dip that we've seen throughout the conflict as well. You know, traders don't want to be caught short at the moment that, you know, the positive breakthrough headline captures. So, that's why we're probably, you know, not down as much as perhaps we could be. But you know as a you know a note of caution ultimately there is still this tail risk of this material escalation today between the US and Iran and markets can't fully discount that and also you know if he does extend the deadline yes that does allow more space for talks but you know they are very far apart in their demands and the longer these talks go on the less there is you know being done to reopen the straight of hummus and that just compounds the negative economic effects we've been discussing over the past weeks. &gt;&gt; Yes. which takes us to some of the data out this week and the CPI print out of the US probably the data points to watch this week I suppose for an early take on how much this is sticking to the US economy perhaps of the three major you know parts of the parts of the globe the the the the talk about the most on this program the one that is going to be last to the inflation party it's heck of a party but you know the last one for it to show up in but we're still going to get that inflation print later this week &gt;&gt; yeah and look I the bond market will ultimately take note of it, but you know, we expect to see, you know, month-to-month headline increase that would be the fastest increase since, I believe, June 2022. That's not really going to tell us too much more that we don't already know. We've seen those headlines, you know, prices at the pump, etc., etc. It's what's going on with the core that's the real focus of central bankers and, you know, those effects will take quite a while to play out and so we may not necessarily learn anything. &gt;&gt; You're not expected to move much is it this week? &gt;&gt; Exactly. It still feels like we're very much in a headline market. And when you think of that USCPI release on Friday, it is on a Friday, which you know is something we've talked about for weeks now is that markets tend to pair down risk. They're kind of bunkering down for the weekend and any potential headline risk. But ultimately, we don't know what the line of the line between US and Iran is. It could be a very different picture to what it is now. &gt;&gt; Adam, thank you very much. Adam Linton from Bloomberg Markets Live blog. US futures down 4/10 of a percent on e- minis right now as we wait. Yeah, they kind of they have they kind of came down and then they just gone sideways really as we just wait and see what happens. Um, we will be back tomorrow. We'll know more then. Hopefully we'll figure it all out. The pulse is next. This is