# YouTube Video MqlnzIKz-8Q

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MqlnzIKz-8Q
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 3948 词

---

welcome back to ilv on the hour. i'm devo klein coming to you live from israel, bringing you all of the biggest headlines from across the region. it's currently 8 a.m. in new york and 2 p.m. here in israel, where we enter day 25 of the war with iran. let's quickly recap all of the latest developments. after yesterday's bombshell announcement by president trump that the united states is engaging in productive talks with the islamic regime, the military continues to strike iran hard across tan. sencom said the attacks were quote aggressive, targeting irgc military assets with precision strikes. at the same time, reports are suggesting that mediators are working on a possible us iran meeting in islamabad as early as this week. washington is reportedly pushing for talks with a senior decision maker in the iranian regime rather than foreign minister abbas arashi seeking as of now the likes of parliament speaker muhammad khalibah. prime minister netanyahu meanwhile addressed the reports in his first public comments since trump's announcement. have a listen. now, israel is not engaged in the talks, taking a backseat to diplomacy as the idf releases this morning that more than 3,000 irgc and regime targets were attacked so far, including last night's strikes on ballistic missile capabilities and various command centers of all irgc branches. the idf added that these strikes are aimed at damaging the core system and the foundations of the islamic regime, saying that the idf will continue to attack until [music] instructed otherwise. and joining me now to break down these latest developments is our panel of experts. i am pleased to welcome to the show ambassador yraminger, an expert on usisrael relations and brigadier general in the reserves kafo, the former chief of staff of the idf's southern command. thank you both for coming on the show today. so gentlemen, i'd love to start by getting both of your takes on the latest from washington. is it too early for talks at this point or is this just you know posturing to achieve more military military gains without jeopardizing really the economic state of the world right now? ambassador edinger if you can start us off. >> well, i would say in principle i suggest to pay attention or accord more weight to walk rather than talk. uh statements are made, statements uh were made but the most important thing is uh the actual action on the ground and on the ground we have seen the largest ever american armada assembled in order to change the regime in uh iran. the major question is uh are we uh watching or witnessing now a change in the direction which i personally uh doubt because with all due respect negotiation with the ayatollah regime, agreement with the ayatollah regime uh play into the hands of the ayatollah regime and their intrinsic aim, intrinsic force 1400y old ideology to bring the great american satan to uh to submission. uh we are watching now testing time for the resolve of the us and uh israel. uh are we going to witness uh uh them sacrificing long-term national security on the order of short-term economic, financial, and diplomatic convenience? or are they going to highlight long-term national security which requires dismantling ayatollah regime? and last and not least, the us should not assume that the president of venezuela when the deputy uh uh tyrant or deputy despot uh has taken over from the chief despot uh applies to iran. in venezuela, we had a despot who was a criminal. in tehran. they are not criminals. they are satanically uh subjecting themselves to an ideology, but they act driven by an ideology. and that ideology supersedes transcends any diplomatic any financial uh consideration or bonanza. and therefore again the goal should be to stick to the mission until regime change and without regime change there will not be a real victory by the us and israel. >> interesting. and so you know i i i personally am ambassador edinger couldn't agree more but uh har kafo if i could get your take. do you think it's posturing at this point or is there real legitimacy to these talks? >> i suggest that you look uh back to the beginning of this war while the americans was weren't ready yet and they had to bring a lot of uh of aircrafts to the scene. um and they it took them something about three weeks to do so. and even then, donald trump uh so-called negotiated or his people negotiated with with the iranians. i think it's only for earning time to bring all the aircrafts to the to the middle east and he did it and he opened fire uh by a total surprise which means that the talking was only to uh stole some time uh to be more ready to this strike. i think now it's the same. the only problems that you have that you cannot continue uh the same way uh to strike iran is almost uh a place where where ships cannot go in and out uh for time being and again donald trump have to stole a bit more time for his forces to come to the middle east. i i now it it will be a ground forces uh uh basically um uh uh infantry um or others uh to uh to to conquer uh or to take uh the islands in the midst of of of of homo's place and when they will be ready to do it uh they will do it. that's what i think and now they need time. so how you gain time without letting the markets uh the the financial markets to fall down? you give ultimatum and then you give another more 5 days and you gain more time and the financial markets are okay now and you have enough time to do so when uh united states will have the homos in their hands and we will uh be able to continue to strike uh iran regime. i think we will continue to do so. now meanwhile in those five days, united states and israel strike even harder uh and and uh harming the foundation stones of the this terrified or this terrible uh uh regime and in 5 days we will be in another situation and i hope that we will continue to do so until this regime will fall down. absolutely. and but i do have a rebuttal for both of you actually because the obviously the last time around when negotiations were happening the united states and washington did say that iran was not really taking them as seriously as they should have which was the cause for the initial beginning of the strike of this war on the ayatollah kami. um that was based off of the information that they were kind of going back and forth and you know coming back you know after initially agreeing but giving harder demands and that that was unacceptable to washington. this time around they're actually insisting on bypassing all of these normal people. i mean obviously alila rani who is is dead right now. he's not going to be in this round of toss. bakarakshi is not on the table right now for washington. they're trying to reach other iranian officials. could that perhaps be a sign that they that they actually are taking this seriously and that they're not interested in all of this back and forth and sort of pointless negotiations that they were engaged in last time? ambassador etinga? well, my own assessment again based on track record uh is that trump sticks to the original goal of regime change and i base it on the uh on his uh behavior last june where in defiance of all assessments he joined the israeli offensive against iran. he did it in defiance of some of his best social friends, some of his best political friends, and some of his major financial contributors who gave to him and republican candidates hundreds of millions of dollars. my assumption is that president trump is open-minded and is adjusting his moves in accordance with reality. uh obviously there are attempts by the isolationists, by the europeans and other elements to convince him to drop the goal of regime change. but uh my assumption that he is uh clear-minded enough to realize that should he stop short of regime change, this will bolster dramatically the ambitions displayed by china, in the pacific ocean, in africa and in latin america, which is the us soft underbelly. it's going to bolster the imperial aspirations of putin uh when with regard to the baltic states and probably even europe and certainly allowing the the ayatollah regime to remain in place would generate would trigger robust tailwind to anti-american islamic terrorism which is already active on us soil. and will be more active once there is a phen the phenomena of the us refraining to go all the way thus projecting to the world at large uh pretty fibble uh posture of uh of deterrence. uh therefore uh while we can go into speculative scenarios, the track record of donald trump suggests that he is going to stick with the original goal of regime change because it advances american interests not on behalf of israel but because he's facing right now an enemy of the us which for the last 47 years has not stopped terrorizing. ing american targets. >> interesting. and uh and kafo, your thoughts on that topic as well. >> uh well, first of all, i agree totally agree with with yoram is uh said it quite clear. i would i would add only the the perspective of of uh i would say the the strike the war and i think we don't need too much time from now to end this this uh mess up. i think that the regime uh hardly control of anything in his uh the the iranian regime doesn't control almost anything in in its own country. uh they don't know one the right hand no don't know what the left hand does. uh most of the things that they are doing are not coordinated. it's only uh uh units uh in this place or another who act um separately uh with the the orders that they got uh uh four weeks ago. and actually they they hardly uh uh do uh a lot of harm even though we look upon israel and we see some of the of the missiles are are are engaging to to targets in israel. uh still it's almost nothing in comparison of what the persians or or the iranians tried to do to israel. so i think that uh they are losing their power day by day and i think it will take one or two weeks from now until we will see that they cannot do almost any anything to to this uh to to israel. and at the same time, the people of iran, i think they will rise up after they will get uh uh uh announcements from bb and from uh donald trump to go out and take off the regime. i think they will do it gladly and i would think they will have a very good chance to succeed doing uh uh doing so. so in general we have to continue to strike and strike and strike and any minute that we have to strike more and more and of course to take the land of of the islands in hos place and i think that after that uh we will be able to stop the the the firing and let the people in iran do the rest of the job. mhm. i feel like that's definitely the priority and it's definitely important that we do achieve regime change. obviously, if that is not achieved and if donald trump were to somehow come up with some diplomatic solution, that would be catastrophic for israel. but putting that aside in the speculation of these talks, what do we know about the leaders of the islamic regime? i mean, it seems like they're saying that they want to negotiate, but who are they expected to negotiate with? the assumption here in israel with israeli officials is that uh iran is denying the allegation of talks and you know sort of taking a step back because they're in survival mode and they don't really have the means to be engaging diplomatically. they're just trying to survive. so i'd love to get both of your takes on that and daniel of course if you could start us off. well, the the main thing to note is that the definition the meaning of negotiation is dramatically different in washington than it is in the in washington. the term negotiation is driven by webster dictionary which means a stage to uh uh advance reconciliation and hopefully reach peaceful coexistence in thran and throughout most of the middle east. negotiation means time to lick wounds, time to uh stall for time. in fact stole for time in order to uh restore capabilities, upgrade capabilities and then get ready for the next uh round. and we should not underestimate the capability of the ayatollas to restore their capabilities. we keep hearing we we of we have already uh injured them enough so it will take them years and years to restore. there's nothing which is farther from truth than such a simplistic assumption. and we should go back to 1967. we obliterated, we crashed completely the egyptian military infrastructure. but soviet union and egypt together restored the egyptian military capabilities within a few months. and the egyptians launched a war of attrition against israel. today the capabilities of restoring of restoring the military capabilities of iran are much more advanced than they were in 1967. and there is a dire chinese and russian and north korean interest to prove to the americans that their posture of deterrence is very very substantial and they want to restore capabilities in iran for their own interest and therefore again allowing time for negotiation allowing the regime to remain in place is going to backfire dramatically and in a very self-destructive manner. uh i trust that the president and certainly secretary of state and secretary of uh war are all aware of it and therefore the talk is uh uh uttered proclaimed for tactical reasons but the walk of assembling more and more power reflects the actual strategy of regime change. >> yeah, absolutely. um now i do want to slightly pivot with you um and ask about the situation in lebanon with you know again going back to the same point where if we assume that negotiations or talks or some sort of diplomatic solution does arise and that uh the war could be wrapping up in the coming weeks even um do you think there's a possibility that trump and washington could then pressure israel to halt their campaign against kazbala and lebanon or are these two separate entities because again, that would be catastrophic for israel if we were stopped short of, you know, completely just getting rid of. uh what what do you think of that? >> i think that israel already made the decision what to do with lebanon until the lebanese will will try or will be able to do other things. and israel decided that all the zone between israel and the lethani river will be a dead zone, will be a zone that nobody will live there until they will be uh the lebanese lebanese or the rest of the world will be able to disarm which of course i don't believe that anyone will do it. therefore, this place will will stay as a dead zone as many years uh from now. um, and i don't think the americans will interfere in this matter because basically u uh they already agreed that the lebanese didn't uh achieve anything about the last uh um agreement that we have uh with the americans, with the frenches and and with with the french people and with the with the leban lebanon and kizbala basically um interfere in in this war uh and acted against the north of israel. therefore, i think we will have uh the full hand to do whatever we want we want to do. i would add another thing about iran. in iran, you don't have anyone to talk to. i mean the one who talks to united states uh consider as a traitor uh the the the head of the parliament who talked to the americans now consider as a traitor in iran. basically uh i don't think that any kind of agreement will be achieved. uh and therefore we will have a lot of time to strike in lebanon as much as we want. we have a lot of time to strike in iran as we want. this is my of course uh own assumption uh or own view and we will see in days if it will if it will be true or not. >> interesting. and i i think that actually a lot of israelis agree with you on that assessment. um we are almost out of time but ambassador etinger if i could just get your quick opinion on the cooperation between israel and the united states. say, you know, again, same direction, hypothetically, if there is some sort of disagreement between washington and jerusalem, say washington is edging toward diplomacy and israel is saying that they don't want to cap the war off, what would that sort of cooperation look like? i mean, do do the us and israel have to agree on on everything? they're in this joint operation. what can you tell us about that? >> us cooperation with israel is driven by american interest. they don't do it as a gesture to the jewish state. they do it because they realize it pays off to the us. in fact, it pays off tremendously to cooperate with israel and leverage israel's unique capabilities. uh we don't need to agree on everything. we have to agree on the fundamentals and the common denominator between the us and israel is vast. it's cultural. it's historical. it's strategic. we have mutual enemies such as islamic terrorism, the sunni islamic terrorism, the muslim brotherhood and the shiite islamic terrorism, the ayatollah regime. there is an american interest also to maintain their global technological lead and they know that there's no better partner for that than israel when it comes to uh providing the giant high-tech corporations in the us with a groundbreaking gamechanging israeli developments and new applications and therefore not withstanding occasional disagreements ments. i i see continued cooperation between the two countries. and last and not least, for israel to defy occasional american pressure would uh be consistent with the state of mind of american president who would be pleased to see israel defying pressure, thus acting in a trumpist manner. president trump does not wait for green light to cross the street. and when he sees israel adapting his mode of behavior, he may condemn us publicly in a very rhetorical manner, but behind the scene, he is going to congratulate israel for finally finally adopting the trump way of facing challenges. and you know, i think that the the whole world might be thinking israel and the united states when this is all said and done. uh har kafo, i do want to get your thoughts, but we are unfortunately out of time, so we have to close our panel with that. but i want to thank you both so much for joining, ambassador ying, brig harel kafo, thank you both so much. >> thank you. >> thank you very much. and now just a quick message from our partners at ukifa. [music] at ukifa international, academic excellence isn't just a standard, it's a way of life. with 21 english-taught m's programs, worldclass faculty and israel's top national score in the times higher education impact rankings, students grow in every direction. if you really want to challenge yourself academically, grow in a very diverse community, and be immersed in such a important and significant environment, university of hifa is the place for you. >> located on the stunning carmel ridge, the uhia blends academic excellence with a welcoming community. >> yu-ha international has a great combination of top-notch academics with a great community of students. whether you're pursuing a one-year masters or diving into research, uhifa gives you the tools, mentorship, and real life insight to make your mark on the world. ukifa international. master your mind, live your israel experience. >> [music] >> and just before we end our broadcast for today, let's go now to our itv correspondent, alec pard, who's standing by live in tel aviv at the site of an impact from a ballistic missile from last night. alec, what can you tell us? >> right, devil. so, uh, in the street behind me on the road, there's a huge pothole, which is where that missile landed, causing extensive damage to three buildings over here. you can see some of the damage right over there. that was one of the buildings that was hit quite extensively. very luckily, there were only four people lightly injured. no hospitalizations from this strike, although the damage goes out as you name in ex uh uh concentric circles out from the impact site. um so here across the street, we see that there's glass shattered all over the place and destruction over here as well. we're talking about a warhead that was around 100 kilos payload. non-cluster amunition like we've seen recently, but just a regular missile as we call it. 100 kilos is actually not that much for ballistic missiles. so, it just shows how extensive the damage can be even from a smaller warhead that the iranians launched here causing this damage in tel aviv, but very luckily without any casualties or any serious injuries. table. >> quick, alec, before we wrap up the broadcast, have you been talking to anybody on the ground? has anybody seen uh witnessed the event? is are they saying anything? >> right. people who were here, they say that they heard a very large explosion. um that's what happens obviously when you are on the site. it sounds extremely extremely scary. the people who were here, they went to the shelter, which was life-saving in this case because of the damage uh that was caused because of the proximity of the strike. and that's just one of a series of salvos that the iranians launched last night early this morning. despite a slight reduction in the amount of rockets that they fired, still able to score uh a hit here, a rocket that went through the israeli interceptors, was not intercepted, and landed over here. obviously a scary experience for the people who are here but still um in the end of the day quite lucky that the people did go to the shelter and that we didn't have any casualties from this event but the damage to the buildings around me >> and yeah the the damage behind you alec is definitely extensive but with that we do have to wrap up the damage one still >> thank you alec for that report we do have to wrap up thank you so much for watching i tv on the