# YouTube Video pUKvcwS6Ry8

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pUKvcwS6Ry8
**字数：** 3544 词

---

this is cbn news watch. >> thanks for joining us for cbn news watch. i'm gary lane. today is tuesday, january 27th. as a middle east braces for war with iran, a war in syria is raging. and in israel, the body of the last israeli hostage was finally recovered a day before the world marks holocaust remembrance day. cbn news middle east correspondent julie stall has more on our top story from jerusalem. israeli [snorts] troops located the body of the last hostage, ran villi, in a gaza cemetery and returned it to israel on monday after 843 days in captivity. it marks the first time since 2014 that there are no israeli hostages in gaza. gavei, a police officer, was on leave on october 7th with an injured shoulder. he went out to fight anyway and died defending kibbutz alum. his body was kidnapped into gaza. israeli president isaac herzog released a short video showing he and his wife removing their yellow pins, the national symbol of the hostages held in gaza. >> an entire nation is breathing an enormous sigh of relief. tonight, as all our hearts are with ran's family, especially his parents, talik and who fought heroically and with remarkable courage to bring their son home. his family thanks the idf, the police, the government, prime minister netanyahu, and the people of israel for standing with them. >> we want to thank to president trump, wiko kushn, and all the people behind the scene. in northeast syria, tensions are high as a longtime us military ally is under assault despite a ceasefire agreement between president ahmed al-shara, also known as al giuliani's military and the kurdish syrian democratic forces or sdf. fighting is breaking out across the region. chuck holton is in the city of kamishi and says many are fleeing the surrounding area. >> it's early morning here in the northern syrian city of kamishi. uh this is a city that's been under the control of the syrian democratic forces or the kurds for more than 10 years. but now this city of 180,000 people has another 200,000 people who have shown up here as refugees from the surrounding area. that's because al galani's forces are trying to push the sdf and the kurds out of this region altogether. and so they have been encircling the city uh with their forces even though there's supposed to be a ceasefire. we heard fighting all night last night and that is creating a huge humanitarian crisis here in kamishi. >> one kurdish resident of kamishi said this is the most challenging time they've faced since the fight against isis in 2011. he fears it could turn into a regional catastrophe >> because this is not anymore about, you know, two parties who are in conflict now. this is more likely about, you know, ethnic groups that are getting into a dispute and a conflict. and this is the worst nightmare. >> all this as the international community marks holocaust remembrance day. in jerusalem, prime minister netanyahu told a conference that anti-semitism is spreading most on social media. >> this is the new battlefield and this is where we must counter with our own weapons. we're late in the game, but we will win this battle too as we won on the battlefield. >> julie stall, cbn news, jerusalem. >> our cbn news middle east bureau chief chris mitchell is with us now. chris, now that all the hostages are returned, what are the next steps in the peace deal? what are the challenges? >> well, there's a lot of challenges, gary. i would say first to echo what the president said that israel really can breathe a sigh of relief now that all the hostages have been home. first time in 10 years and certainly all the ones that came from uh october 7th. the big challenge i think right now is disarming hamas. uh that was one of the main goals of the war when this all began on october 7th and i think that is the main challenge right now. uh it seems like uh a lot of the uh nations they want to go to phase two and there's a concern here uh gary that some of the uh nations that are part of the board of peace some of they're actually on the gaza executive board and that would be qatar and turkey would sort of soften the blow to hamas and have a way that they could actually survive. that's a major concern here. they don't want turkey involved. they don't want qatar boots on the ground. uh so i think those that's a big challenge right here going after phase one of this peace deal onto phase two. chris chuck holden's reporting on the threat to the kurds in the northeast of syria. uh you and i have spent a lot of time with the kurds over the years. so what should americans know about the kurds and their relations with the united states? well, first of all, gary, i think that they should know that the uh the kurds have been one of the greatest allies in the war against uh terror, against islamic terror, and specifically against isis. uh there are about 11,000 kurds who died fighting isis when it was rampaging through iraq and syria. so, i think people need to know they're a great ally. and right now a lot of people believe uh that somehow there's been a deal made where the al-shar government uh of syria has been able to go in and take over what is called northeast syria, an autonomous uh area that really had been a free democratic area. uh it's just a remarkable uh phenomenon there in the heart of the middle east and now it's under peril. uh the al-shar government and the syrian army which is made up of many jihadists is really taking over this uh this area and threatening many of the kurds. we've seen atrocities. we've seen torture and killing. uh we've seen humiliation of many of the kurdish soldiers even the women. uh so it's it's a very very difficult desperate situation for them and uh i think a lot of people need to pray for the kurds and all the people in that region because it's it's really been a beacon of democracy and freedom even religious freedom in the heart of the middle east. >> chris, you're attending an anti-semitism conference in jerusalem. what's the main takeaway from the gathering? >> yeah, i i see that julie and her story had a sound bite from uh prime minister netanyahu. i'm at the same conference. it's a dayong conference but the biggest takeaway i think is that the dangers of uh of anti-semitism and how much it has grown uh in in social media. i think that's one of the main uh examples and one of the main concerns right now of the uh of of anti-semitism. uh we've had we've heard from the president uh earlier this morning, president is heard sorry we've heard from the prime minister of albania and they've had a couple of uh panels here but the the growth of anti-semitism gary i think is a huge concern and they they're also saying that you know israel has been fighting a sevenfront war uh against all of its enemies surrounding here. the eighth front is the battle for truth. and that's what they call this conference, generation of truth. and so they feel like this is the the existential battle for the legitimacy of the jewish people and the jewish state. and uh a a battle no less important perhaps, gary, than what uh many of the soldiers have been fighting on the battlefield. >> yes. and on this holocaust remembrance day, it's still a shame that 81 years later, people still deny the holocaust. so, what do you have on today's jerusalem day, chris? we've got about 45 seconds. >> yeah. well, because of uh international holocaust remembrance day, we have a story of walter bingham. he's a good friend of ours. he's 102 years old, believe it or not, and he's uh set the guinness world book of redus as the oldest working journalist. he survived the holocaust. so, we have a story on him. we have a also an update on something called uh uh the truth about the some of the influencers that have been anti-semitic coming against israel. we have a statement about that and uh and also a story about the dead sea scrolls that are actually some of them are in washington dc right now and and a feature on that just once again proving the the connection between the jewish people and the land of israel. >> okay, our cbn news middle east spirit chief chris mitchell, thanks for your insights. we look forward to hearing from you again in the days ahead. and you can see the the latest jerusalem datine at 8:00 p.m. eastern on the cbn news channel. you can also watch on the cbn news app or on youtube. back here at home, protests continue in and around minneapolis after the latest deadly shooting by federal officers there. this as president trump and governor walls are talking and the nation's borders are makes his way to minnesota due to the growing criticism over immigration enforcement tactics. cbn's wendy griffith has more. >> president trump is shaking up the leadership of immigration enforcement operations in minnesota after the fatal shooting of 37year-old alex prey. at least 29 republican members of congress are now demanding a full investigation. the department of homeland security now reviewing body camera video showing multiple angles of the shooting. the president sending in his borders are tom h. bowman, who he says will quote, "report directly to me." and gregory bo, the top border patrol agent in charge, reportedly is leaving as soon as today. >> mr. hman is the point person uh for cooperating with state and local authorities in in corresponding with them again to achieve this level of cooperation to subdue the chaos on the streets of minneapolis. the president now facing growing scrutiny within his own party over the administration's handling of the immigration crackdown and response to two fatal shootings. immediately when an incident like this happens, they come out guns blazing that that we took out a violent terrorist. hooray. escalating the rhetoric doesn't help. and it actually loses credibility. republican texas governor greg abbott says the white house needs to re-calibrate immigration enforcement tactics >> to make sure that they are going to be able to remove these people w without causing all the kinds of problems and fighting in communities that they are experiencing right now. >> the white house monday distancing itself from comments saturday by homeland security secretary christy gnome who accused prey of domestic terrorism. but press secretary caroline levit also pointing the finger at minnesota's democratic leaders. >> this tragedy occurred as a result of a deliberate and hostile resistance by democrat leaders in minnesota. >> also monday, minnesota governor tim walls called president trump to discuss how they can work together to quell the weeksl long unrest. the president posting on social media that he and walls seem to be on quote a similar wavelength. the situation could have national implications. democrats vowing to oppose a package that includes funding for the department of homeland security, which could result in a partial government shutdown at the end of the week. wendy griffith, cbn news. >> coming up, it's holocaust remembrance day. we show you how one rabbi saved tens of thousands of jews. stay with us. you're watching cbn news watch. on this day in 1945, soviet troops liberated the nazi death camp in awitz, where more than 1 million people died, most of them jews. january 27th is now observed worldwide as holocaust remembrance day. now, a new book about the holocaust tells the inspiring story of a rabbi in bulgaria who saved tens of thousands of jews. cbn's raj brings us that story. during the holocaust, as hitler's final solution systematically exterminated europe's jewish population, a rabbi named daniel zeon, who had become a messianic follower of yeshua, became instrumental in rescuing tens of thousands of jewish lives. they went to see the king himself and they and rabbi daniel delivered a letter to the king and say if you hand the 50,000 jews to hitler one day you're going to stand before god and their blood will be on your hands and this is how you'll be remembered. so god used them to bring the fear of god upon the government of bulgaria and the king of bulgaria. this piece of little known history is now told in the book legacy of hope written by avi misrahi. now he and his daughter d'vorah are now seeing this story result in something truly miraculous inside israel. >> and through this story you can actually share the gospel because here's a hero for our people who did something tremendous for our people. saving 50,000 jewish people. that's not a small thing. not only was he jewish, but he also believed in the messiah, yeshua. so, it's a story that jewish people can get a hold of and israelis can get a hold of. >> this is a wonderful opportunity to sharing with the arab israeli friends that you can be jewish. you can even be a rabbi, orthodox rabbi, and you can believe in yeshua because he's the only hope. and when we messianic jews and christian believers come together, we can stand together as the one man against the evil and overcome evil. in such a time, it is. >> as bright as this evangelistic story has become in israel, it's also set against the backdrop of a worldwide resurgence of anti-semitism. from manchester to washington to sydney's bondi beach, violence and hatred against the jewish people are rampant. cbn news asked d'vorah what christian believers can learn from the legacy of hope. >> through it all, they never gave up and they did not stay silent. for them, they they were vocal. they prayed. they put they they gathered jews into their homes, into their churches. they were v vocally and and very much active in saving of the the jews of bulgaria. who knows if by us being active maybe by our actions they will see the messiah and the veil will be removed. and i said, "it's actually now that we need to stand for the jewish people when it's hard and when we're persecuted and when they're persecuted, even to risk our lives because we know that the jewish people are part of the god's bigger plan. and if we want to be part of god's plan, we have to be part of this too." >> rajire for cbn news. >> still ahead, one doctor shares her lessons and reflections on her cancer journey. stay with us. you're watching cbn news watch. about one in five americans faces a cancer diagnosis at some point in their lives. on this week's healthy living show, oncologist dr. sue wang, author of from both sides of the curtain, discusses what she learned about the disease after going through her own journey with breast cancer. when i first got diagnosed, as devastating as it was, part of me kind of thought, you know, if i'm going to get a cancer, i guess this would be the one to get. after all, i've guided thousands of women down this path. i know the nuances to the treatment. i know all the doctors. so, you know, because of this, i kind of thought i could get through treatment easily and then just kind of get back to life as i knew it. and um when i was recovering from my surgery at home, i quickly realized that life as i knew it was was gone. and um it's a very sobering realization because when you get this diagnosis, it really changes you down to the core. and the challenging thing is the world around you keeps going. you know, your friends are the same, your family's the same, and they're all there to support you, but you are just fundamentally a different person after this diagnosis. and i've heard patients tell me this when they come in and they meet me and they say, you know, i just feel different. i'm off. i i feel lonely. i um i feel very isolated. and um i wanted to write this book because if i with 15 years of experience um treating breast cancer felt lonely and isolated then certainly someone without all my knowledge it it's totally understandable for you know the average patient to also feel that way. so i wanted to share my story so that patients out there know that they're not alone. you know, one thing that's different, one of the many things that's different about your experience as to the average patients experience, if there is such a thing, is that as soon as you got your mammogram results, you knew that you had breast cancer. a lot of us have to wait until we talk to the radiologist or some other doctor to to for them to interpret it, but you knew right away. but what surprised you about your reaction to those mammogram results? >> um, you know, until you are that person, you know, honestly, when i went in for that mammogram, i literally had my day scheduled. like, i was going to go for the mammogram at 8, you know, i had to get my car repaired at 9:00. i had to go pick up my kids at 1. like, i had my whole day scheduled. and i guess what surprised me about the mammogram results is even though my whole world literally turned upside down that instant, my brain kept thinking, "okay, you have a schedule today. [laughter] you got to get your car repaired. you got to get the kids." you know, and i i think it [clears throat] was just a total disconnect between the news and then like the reality of what i had to do that day. um, so when i reflect back, you know, and i tell people like because every a lot of people asked me, "what were you thinking when you got that news and i i really was thinking i really have to go get my car repaired." um, and it was just a way it was a weird way that i processed it. um, >> that sounds to me like denial or some or or shock. >> yes. yes. i you know now looking back that was that is probably the more appropriate word but it was certainly a funny thing to think about when you are getting a life-changing diagnosis. mhm. mhm. so now you became the patient and what was that like for you when you are you used to be the caregiver and all of your colleagues and associates at the hospital and within the medical community community are now your caregivers. they say that doctors are notoriously bad patients. what was it like for you to be the patient? um, yes, i will openly admit i was a horrible patient. and you know, part of it was really because i exactly what you just said. you know, you're you're to some degree you're still in denial. even when you're going in through treatment, you're in denial. it's like this is not happening to me. so, i wasn't intentionally trying to be a bad patient and not listening to my doctors. it was just that like i was like, you know, physically i was like, you know, i want to go for a walk. i'm fine. i know i just had surgery, but i can still go for a walk even though i wasn't supposed to go for a walk. you can learn more about both sides of the curtain on this week's edition of healthy living. and today it's on the cbn news channel at 2:30 and 8:30 eastern. you can also see it on the cbn news app or on youtube. stay with us. more cbn news watch right after this. welcome back to cbn news watch. children in memphis turned the recent winter storm into some fun. although the area didn't get a significant amount of ice, the kids enjoyed a day off to play and build a makeshift igloo using ice blocks accumulated on driveways. meanwhile, warming centers were set up in memphis to help residents during the below freezing temperatures. well, that's it for this edition of cbn news watch. remember, you can find more of our news program on the cbn news channel anytime or online with cbnnews.com. also, tell us what you think about the stories you've seen by emailing <email> [music] or talk to us on facebook, instagram, and x, formerly known as twitter. we hope you'll join us next time. have a great day.