# YouTube Video lDXWN_zcEmM

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lDXWN_zcEmM
**字数：** 494 词

---

Hello and welcome. Our top story today is from the Democratic Republic of Congo. The country's east is rich in minerals, but it is a conflict torn region. The M23 rebels and their affiliates continue to spread terror in the area and control strategic mining reserves. But now in a twist, it seems that the DRC's latest move could draw the US closer to the battlefield. Now, according to media reports, Kinshasa has offered the Robaya Colan mine to the US under a strategic minerals partnership. The mineral deal was signed back in December when US President Donald Trump broken a ceasefire between the DRC and Rwanda, which has been accused of backing the M23 rebels. &gt;&gt; The United States is also signing our own bilateral agreements with the Congo and Rwanda that will unlock new opportunities for the United States to access critical minerals and provide economic benefits for everybody. and we'll be involved. We're sending some of our biggest and greatest companies over to the two countries and we're going to take out some of the rare earth and take out some of the assets and pay and everybody's going to make a lot of money. &gt;&gt; The M23 and its affiliate, the Congo River Alliance, the AFC, were not a part of this peace deal. The two rebel groups are also under US sanctions. But here's the catch. They are the ones controlling the rabio mine that the DRC has reportedly offered to the US. Now the Rabio mine is situated in North Ku. It produces around 15% of the world's colultan. The mine has one of the world's richest tantelum deposits. Now, tantelum is used in the production of semiconductors, aerospace components, computers, mobile phones, and gas turbines. According to the UN estimates, the rebels collect at least $800,000 per month from taxes on raia cultan production and trade. Now, the rebels controlling the mine have criticized the US mineral deal. They have said that the congalles government should not negotiate new mineral partnerships while fighting continues. Despite the Trump brokered peace deal, clashes continue to erupt in the region. And now the question arises, is the congalles government using its strategic mineral reserves as bait for the US to recover the area from the rebels? Now, this comes as Washington has been eyeing to loosen Beijing's grip over the DRC's mineral reserves. These include lithium, copper, cobalt, and gold assets in its push to counter China's influence in Africa. Will the US be drawn into the longunning conflict in eastern DRC? And will this minerals deal ease the crisis or make the region even more unstable? &gt;&gt; The streets roared her name. &gt;&gt; Supporters climbed rooftops. History seemed ready to repeat itself. Then it happened. A flash. A burst. Panic swallowing cheers. In seconds, Benazir Budo was gone. Not voted out, not defeated, but assassinated. Catch the full story on the assassination at these times only on First Post.