# YouTube Video v8JW4ps7Msg

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v8JW4ps7Msg
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 9551 词

---

welcome back to tv on the hour. i'm khal benvid coming to you live from israel, bringing you all of the biggest headlines from across the region. it's currently 800 a.m. in new york city and 2 p.m. here in israel where we are entering day 19 of the war with iran. let's cap all the latest developments. well, it was a challenging night for the home front as iran and hisba launched multiple waves of missiles at israel and there were fatalities. a couple in their 70s, yahon and elana moshe, were killed in an iranian strike on the tel aviv suburb of ramachan after a barrage that included missiles armed with cluster warheads. the two were found in their apartment and are believed not to have reached a protected space in time. medics pronounced them dead at the scene. four others were lightly injured in separate impacts, including in the city of benet brock and karasam. the shrapnel also caused damage to one of tel aviv's main train stations temporarily halting rail service. and the sirens continued overnight in central and southern israel with additional missiles intercepted. no further casualties reported. overnight, hisbala also launched over 40 rockets and drones at northern israel from lebanon with most intercepted or falling in open areas. one home in carmel was damaged by a rocket. no injuries reported. our reporter devil klein is at the scene of that strike in ramatan. uh deo, >> hi kv. i am at the scene of one of the impact sites of last night's multiple barges of ballistic missiles that made their way over from um iran over to israel. we had about between three and four sirens in central israel, depending on where you are, scattered throughout the night. so, not a lot of sleep given. but just behind me on the top floor of this apartment complex, one of the fragments of these uh cluster munition bombs that are being sent over from iran um hit the top floor of this apartment building. it crashed through the porch and unfortunately the explosion took the lives of two elderly people in their 70s. reports are now claiming that they were on their way to their bomb shelter and they just didn't make it in time. and now their lives have been taken. unfortunately, may their memories be a blessing. this is the first time that we're seeing casualties from these ballistic missile barges since the tragic incident in beamesh that took the lives of nine people. this is the first time that we're seeing casualties since that event. uh just behind me right now, there are cranes trying to remove the rubble and the carnage. i was actually here earlier in the morning where uh a chunk of the porch that had not really fallen off yet. it was kind of hang still hanging on from last night. it crashed down on one of these workers behind me. so, we now have police presence and soldiers from the homeront command just being around and urging people to stay safe and to take the necessary precautions because this scene as of right now is a safety hazard. and as you can see behind me, the israeli and american flags. honestly, american flags kv draped around the city uh in every corner, in every intersection, just reminding people to stay strong, that we are in this together to inspire unity and to remind people to listen to the homeront command guidelines because they do save lives. so this is the carnage behind me from the scenes of one of the impacts last night in central israel. back to you, kv. >> thank you, devo. and a real tragedy there. and joining us for more on this is dr. yakov seligman. he is a volunteer physician and ambulance driver for the united hats salah emergency medical services organization. dr. seligman, i understand you were at the scene there overnight uh there in ramat khan. first of all, just tell us about your experience, what you saw there. >> uh yes, that's correct. i was at a couple of the scenes last night uh in the multiple barges. i was in petikva in a couple of different areas as well as benrock as well as the uh the scene in matan. uh it's just destruction. i think it's also important to note that these cluster warheads, they're not little pieces of shrapnel flying, but they're specifically made to explode in the air and then multiple dozens actually of little bomblets they call them of little missiles each fall apart so that it's much much harder for us to counter them and so that they can inflict maximum damage on civilian casualties. one of these little bomblets, just one of them, fell through this, uh, poor couple's apartment while they were on their way to their shelter, and it, uh, unfortunately took both of their lives. there was destruction everywhere. uh, cars on fire. uh, the apartment there was destroyed. another building in petikva, the entire building had to be completely evacuated. cars were burned. i'd say at least a dozen or 15 cars that i saw in the parking lot were completely destroyed by just one of these bomblets. and each of these ballistic missiles that they send over at night, not only to wake us up and harass us, but they send out dozens of these little bullets, each having the potential to kill dozens of people. >> right. uh and dr. celigman, uh unfortunately, this was an older couple. apparently, we're not able to make their way into a shelter in time. it's a problem when you live, for example, in a tall building, as i understand this was, and maybe the shelter wasn't they didn't have a protected room. i don't know the exact circumstances. uh how are you seeing as you go around the country and going to these scenes uh we're now in our third week of war. is the israeli public remaining really uh with the necessary edge to make sure they respond promptly to these kind of alerts? >> so, thank god it most people by and large are staying steadfast and strong and listening to the homeront command instructions, getting to safe places as fast as possible. just like this couple, there have been unfortunate accidents where that 17-year-old girl was hit uh last a few days ago on her way to a shelter as well. um but the israeli government is trying to provide as much as they can shelters. and like you said, there's some tall buildings, older buildings that don't have shelters like my house for example. we have to run in the middle of the night every time with our children to the community shelter down the street. it's not fun, but the israeli public is strong and we're behind our government and we do know that whatever needs to be done, we're with them and it's for the long term for the peace in in the future. >> all right, let's hope still continues that way. dr. yako celikman of united hot salah, thank you for joining us. >> thank you for having me. >> and meanwhile, the us and and israel continue to hit iran with ongoing and devastating air strikes. defense minister israel katz has confirmed that iranian intelligence minister esmile katib was targeted and killed by an idf air strike overnight. media reports also claim a projectile struck near the bushir nuclear power plant. excuse me. the idf says it has expanded its strikes on besieged targets across tehran, hitting multiple command sites linked to the iranian regime. the strikes follow the attack that killed basie commander golam golam reza salmani and other senior basie officials. now, israeli officials have also now confirmed that mortza larajani, the son and deputy of ali larajani was also killed in that strike that eliminated his father. over the past 24 hours, the army says more than 10 military positions were struck in iran, including command centers embedded in civilian areas and checkpoints across the capital. the idf says these operations are part of a broader campaign to weaken iran's military and internal internal security networks. turning out of the northern front, the idf says it struck hisba operatives, rocket launchers, and logistic facilities across lebanon today after warning that the group is likely still planning more major rocket barges on israel. the idf says it is pushing deeper into southern lebanon, establishing a buffer zone as hisba continues its rocket and drone attacks on northern israel. troops from the 36th division have launched additional targeted ground operations, joining the 91st and 146 divisions already deployed in the area. the military says heavy air strikes and artillery fire have preceded the advance, targeting hisbala positions across the south. also in beirut's dia stronghold, the idf says it carried out a new wave of air strikes on hisbella infrastructure after it issuing an evacuation warning for the coastal city of tiara tyra. israel has again urged civilians to evacuate those areas south of the zarani river as lebanese authorities report more than 1 million people are displaced. now, the rdf says these operations are aimed at pushing hezbollah away from the border and reducing the threat to israeli communities in the north. defense minister kat said hundreds of thousands of lebanese civilians will not return south of the latani river until northern israeli residents are safe. and us president donald trump has acknowledged and praised israel's killing of top iranian official ali larajani along with the head of the besiege force solommani. referring to the idf strike killing larajani, trump said a lot of people say their actual top leader was killed yesterday along with someone responsible for the death of 32,000 protesters. when asked about his next steps in iran, he said the us is not yet ready to leave, but will do so in the very near future. and he insisted that if the war ends, it will take iran 10 years to rebuild. trump also criticized nato and praised middle east allies for their help in securing the straight of hormuz, calling nato's refusal a very foolish mistake. let's listen to president trump. >> well, we've had great support from the middle east. uh qar has been great, saudi arabia has been terrific, bahrain has been very good. the middle eastern countries have been very strong in their support. and of course, israel has been uh our partner. israel's uh been very very strong, but we're not ready to leave yet. but we uh we'll be leaving in the near future. we'll be leaving in pretty much the very near future. but right now they've been uh decimated from every standpoint. and again, we've had great support from countries in the middle east. great support, but we've had no support from essentially no support from nato. >> okay. uh but in the uh first serious signs of dissension in the trump administration, the us national counterterrorism center director joe kent announced his resignation over us military strikes on iran. kent said in a post that social media on social media platform x that he quote cannot in good conscience support the ongoing war on iran. iran posed no imminent threat to a nation and it's clear that we started this war due to pressure from israel and its powerful american lobby. now kent is the highest level official to resign from his to resign his position over president trump's decision to launch the war with iran. in his letter, ken said that early in in the administration, quote, high-ranking israeli officials and influ influential members of the american media deployed a misinformation campaign that wholly undermined your america first platform and sowed pro-war sentiments to encourage a war with iran. however, kent's appointment at as national counterterrorism director eight months ago was opposed by democrats who cited his previous ties to white supremist, anti-semitic, and neo-nazi activists. administration officials are also saying that kent, a military veteran, had been frozen out of top security briefings for the past several months over concerns that he was leaking sensitive material. well, joining us for more on all these stories, we have with us dr. ayal pinko. he is a uh e intelligence, security and cyber expert here in israel. we also have joining us from bahrain, ahmed kuzi, a political consultant and analyst. thank you for joining us, gentlemen. a lot to talk about. but first, uh dr. pico, let me just start with you. uh israel taking out another uh senior figure in the uh iranian hierarchy, the intelligence minister is katib. i want you to maybe just talk about the impact of that, but more broadly this wave the potential impact of these wave of eliminations that we've seen just over the past couple of days. >> yeah. uh speaking about u uh elimination. so it was uh also um yesterday or day and a half ago the elimination of the head of the national security and many many other bas senior officers as as you mentioned. um if if i may also said that two hours ago israel also um attacked oil and gas infrastructure in iran which is much much further escalation because until now uh trump wanted to to preserve this kind of u infrastructure in order not to play with the oil prices that will not hyro as they already are. and um today uh combining with the elimination of the senior people with the oil infrastructure this is really um a major escalation in the attacks. they are major escalation because now they really eat the the symbol of the regime. the symbol of the regime, the the senior officers and one of the most critical assets that they have what generate money which is the oil. so it's it's a huge escalation under consent from trump and i think it it's it's a it's a huge milestone in the war. >> all right. well uh ahmed, of course you could you could also comment uh on some of the points dr. pinko just made which are quite interesting attacking for example the oil facilities. but i do want to ask you uh we haven't about the situation in bahrain. you know you heard earlier perhaps a report on the difficulties for example we had overnight here in israel uh bahrain has been repeat you are on the very front line of this conflict with iran and you have been targeted with iran. maybe also just talk about just how it's also been the last couple few the last few days there. uh, of course um it's not my place to comment on what the doctor just mentioned. he knows more better than i do. although to answer your question and to follow up on what he said, we could say we could see a pretty good decline in the number of attacks by iran and the number of of missiles and drones. that's contributed to the elimination of at least a number of 25 to 35 um assassinations of high ranked iranians over the past few days as well as uh iran been using their artillery heavily lately 95% declined this is a big thing uh for uh a country that's fighting a war uh of that uh size now in bahrain and the gulf as well you just mentioned we are at the front lines. although we are being um uh on the defense lately uh for the past uh two weeks. we are approaching the third week within 3 days. um we've been on the uh on the response side. we haven't attacked iran yet. we have a pretty good strategy. we spoke about it on our last interview last week here on the channel with you. yet what i have to highly mention here is uh the speech that you just broadcasted by president trump thanking israel and the uh gulf states. uh this just shows how these treaties how this agreement between stance uh and the defense um strategies that we've been uh handling lately. it is draining iran out. this is the main word i've got to say u between eliminating their their leaders between having a cardboard ayatollah between uh how the attacks are being managed by israel and the united states and how we are receiving it in the gulf. i think this is a pretty good strategy to drain them out overall. >> right. uh maybe dr. pink will pick pick up on that. uh because if as you said if for example president trump now attacking the infrastructure of iran uh we should also mention reports of uh increased military activity around the straight of hormuz air strikes there to try to uh deplete iranian capabilities blocking to block that waterway. we may be seeing the groundwork for a kind of post-war uh strategy or position as president trump maybe is thinking about uh uh drawing down the more kinetic aspects of the conflict and looking at how he can create an arrangement that will continue to press the regime if it is still stand weakened but still standing at the end of this phase of the conflict. >> yeah. um if if we can uh map uh trump and israel moves strategy if i can call it strategy uh we can see uh that at the beginning aerial security was achieved after that taking down still um taking down the the missile launching capabilities and you know ahmed here my friend with bahin and all the other countries over there they suffered eight times more than israel missile attacks. it's much more than than israel and and i believe they have less u uh aerial defense capabilities if i assess correctly. uh so um you know and they're they're showing good resilience towards the uh uh iranian attack. so this is this is the second part. the third part is against the the regime symbols. uh once again the top leaders including kamayi and this is the third and the fourth one is the energy capabilities which is the last uh the last piece in the puzzle how to dismantle uh or enable the the people of iran to go over against the the regime and i think that these are the fourth the fourth dimension. one important thing regarding that is uh bombarding and heating the island which is which sits on the uh on the opening of the uh of the straits. and this is very important because from one hand this is the hub for many uh oil pipeline and and the oil infrastructure but most of it this is very important base very important one of the iranian re revolution navy which from this kaj island they are controlling the exit from the straits of so heating over there the navy will enable the american navy to go inside and to be more much more closer to the straight in order to uh see that the maritime commerce goes in and out. so basically these are the five elements and i think uh once again four of them were dealt before today we see uh additional steps we are going very well towards the strategy we don't know when uh when trump will stop you know one day say two three days another day say three four weeks i don't know if he's mixing the iranian like that or doing some psychological effect against the iranians or against us or with us, but we still are confused regarding the timeline. >> dr. pigu, i certainly won't may force you to make a prediction based on what president trump may or may not be uh saying at any particular time. uh but ahmed, i want to go back to you and you discussed the and you mentioned president trump here as you said uh specifically thanking countries like bahrain uh the uae which has joined the abraham accords, saudi arabia. uh but what about countries? uh those countries already had a certain position visav iran certainly bahrain uh the uae and saudi arabia visav and maybe saudi arabia or more quietly visav israel. but what about those countries in the gulf like qatar, oman, kuwait that it for different reasons perhaps uh sought to, however you want to say, accommodate iran or some some might say certainly in some cases enable iran. uh now it's been uh it's been weeks that they've had to deal with their attack. do you see a a fundamental shift in those countries bringing them closer to where, for example, bahrain and the uae now stand and and saudi arabia may be clearly heading? >> certainly. now, uh i'm not going to be very optimistic about joining the abraham accords immediately, but let's put it that way. today, it's a black and white kind of situation for the gulf states. there are countries that attack you with rockets and there are countries who are not. once we put it this way, that puts puts iran at the top of the chart of who's your enemy. once we put it there, we have to look on the other side. who's not your enemy? who's not bombarding you? who's not attacking you? once we put it in this clear version, we will know exactly where everybody is standing. yes, i understand people have reservations with israel. people have reservations when it comes to the palestinian issue. but today we're talking about the sovereignity of every state of the gulf states and that is a sovereign question that has no other answers but to answer it with a black and white kind of situation. that's number one. if i may add uh and i'm no uh military strategist here but i mean taking it from a political or from uh let's say logical point of view. now that the energy resources of iran are being attacked, i think that's exactly what they're going to retaliate with, attacking the energy sources in the gulf. and here we're talking about oil. they've been trying to do it over the past few weeks, but i think they will even uh do it heavily over the next few days. they tried to attack the financial institutions linking them to the united states and as per them even to israel and they did not succeed. so, let's see how it plays out over the next few weeks or the next few days. we're not >> well, that sort of that begs a question, aman, because you heard president trump specifically criticize european countries, nato allies for not, for example, sending warships to the straight of hormuz or additional forces. how well protected or not are those uh facilities in places like bahrain, the uae, qatar, saudi arabia? how vulnerable are they to perhaps uh uh a stepped up iranian attacks uh if we see that in the coming days? >> um as i mentioned i i'm not a military person. i wouldn't know that but from what i can see is that we are fairly protected for two main reasons. we mentioned that the number of attacks are declining up to 95% and that's assuring uh up to a big level. uh on the other hand as well the strategy of the gulf. yes, we have never uh as gulf states been through this situation before. uh so we saw a big change as citizens here after the first week. uh we can see how our military forces started adapting to it, understanding the patterns, understanding how to deal with it. and from there we saw a big change in how we're dealing with it and even the number of sirens. so i would say we are fairly protected. >> all right. uh ayal, i want to turn a little to the northern front and his bulla. uh i think a lot of people are now actually starting to wonder if the war the war with iran uh this stage of it ends because basically president trump decides it's this time of the uh to end that operation where does that leave israel withaha? what is our goal now with hisba? are we facing the possibility that that the conflict with hisbala would continue even after perhaps this stage of the war with iran will end? i think as a short answer the uh the potential of um gaining or moving to another escalation with it's absolutely opened. it's more than that. there are some rumors which i don't know if it's our facts or not but a lot of saying that radwan force is is already accumulated several thousands of uh operatives uh in the borders in the southern part of lebanon. um and we see from the attacks a few days ago against israeli soldiers and in general that we and so we see that um they are fighting they're trying to fight the lebanese military really at the end of the day putting things on the table has no has no power to stop it once um you know part of the lebanese military personnel are as well. sobala is very well mixed in the lebanese military. h secondly, they are really afraid personally of uh doing things against hisbala that it may turned against them as well. and the lebanese government is very weak. uh they have some backup from the french government, the german government, but at the end of the day they're very weak. they cannot impose anything onbalah.balah is willing to protect its position in lebanon. nevertheless, what will happen with iran is allbalah has also its own ambitions, political ambitions, he thinks leader thinks they they own the land in lebanon. so i believe uh even though iran will collapse as we say inshallah or i hope they will it will be um stillbala is over there and we cannot forget also the houthis that are you know still waiting where to go inside the war so we are still we will we still need to uh to deal at some moment with iranian proxies iraq iran i'm sorry his andbala and um it's i think it's a m matter of time when the hoodies will will start operating. nevertheless and in the summary we see political local ambitions from of the not only by iranian and we you know at some moment i believe there will be some escalation or more escalation against them. >> all right. well, since you mentioned the houthis ahmed, i mean, we we we've been much more focused in terms of iranian proxies uh on hisba to some degree on those um shiite militias in in iraq kind of for put aside, i won't say forgotten, but put aside for example the threat posed by the houthis. but we should also note iran has shiite proxies in other countries as well. and we've seen in bahrain for example uh however you want to describe them certainly anti-government activists or agents of iran uh at work. uh how does that the the how has the progress of the war and where it might end impact on their uh influence uh in the gulf region those proxies uh be it a whole country like yemen or elements within a country like in bahrain where where does this war leave them or potentially leave them >> well to start with uh just like you mentioned with the proxies here we're talking about two sets of proxies the first set is the likes of hzbollah and houthis and hashabi in iraq. the second set is what are known as the sleeper cells. they are only active when are ordered by iran to do so. we've seen them in qatar, bahrain, and kuwait. uh not as big and not as active and not as violent as the ones in lebanon and uh iraq and uh with the houthis in yemen. uh the difference is they are not as heavily militarized. they're not as much as organized, but they are more like sleeper cells. the uh the cell that was uh captured yesterday in kuwait are an offshoot of hezbollah. and hisbollah since the 80s have been operating in kuwait trying to stage some basically assassinations against the amir, some kidnappings, some some killings. uh and now they're back on track. and uh just to follow up on the previous conver conversation with the doctor here is that they picked the wrong time because today they're not just going against israel and lebanon, but now they're facing as well the gulf states who are backing heavily the lebanese government. and just yesterday, hezbollah announced that they are going against the state in lebanon. so that makes them pick the wrong time for picking a fight. it's one of the worst times ever for them. that on one hand. back to your question when we're talking about the houthis, they may enter any time just like it was commented right now. but when it comes to the sleeper cells on the first week, they were heavily active in the gulf and in the arab world. but over the second week, they felt what iran is going through. and now we see them taking a defense stance. so instead of them attacking and threatening here i'm talking about even personally uh threatening personal people threatening with killings and other stuff now they stopped and now they are on the defense stance asking people not to attack them they are misunderstood they stand with their countries so that tells everything we want to know about how they feel where the war is going and how iran is handling everything which from being the aggress i mean on the aggressive side now being on the defense sides and that tells us everything we need to know about how this war is going. >> right. of course though a wounded animal can sometimes be the most dangerous kind of animal as they say. uh dr. ayal pinko and our friend there in bahrain we wish you all the best and stay safe. thank you. thank you for joining us. >> thank you so much. >> and let's continue our discussion. let's bring in now jonathan aluri. he is a uh middle east expert specializing especially on israeli lebanese affairs. and we also have from the us hussein abdul hussein, a senior research fellow at the foundation for defense of democracies. and jonathan, i'm going to start just with you because after the kind of night we had uh with hisba uh firing upwards of 40 missiles and drones, we have to say fortunately israel's defense systems were quite effective. uh but we're seeing this morning and perhaps you heard early in the broadcast uh uh expanded military activity uh in in lebanon now centered around tar and other areas. uh where does that leave hisba? i i a question i raised for a previous guest is are we facing an extended conflict with hisba that may extend even beyond the current war with iran? uh because that is going to be decided by president trump whereas apparel is going to have to be decided certainly here in israel. >> yeah, as it seems as as you mentioned the war in iran has is been dictated and led by president trump in the us. at the end of the day, the hezbollah front is much more closer to israel and the us also gave uh uh the the full support to israel to continue on on its operation against hezbollah. unlike for example in 2024 where the us uh basically pushed israel towards this ceasefire that we saw that at the end of the day the lebanese government wasn't able to cease all of hezbollah's weapons southern the lean river and in general all across of the lebanese territories. that's why it led this time to the lebanese governments to take more more measurements or more affirmative uh actions against hezbollah starting from announcing it as an illegal uh to the lebanese uh law and also goes against lebanese sovereignty. at the end of the day, hezbollah knows that with the fall hopefully soon of the islamic republic, their days will be very much shorter because at the end of the day, their main funer, their main supporter, their main uh um equipped uh equipments that are sent to them are from the islamic republic of iran. they have been their almost solely bene beneficiary since 1982 when they created hezbollah to act as their proxy uh in lebanon. taking the lebanese people as hostages throughout the last 40 plus years at the end of the day just to to act on behalf of the islamic republic and wage war against israel. but this time we've seen a lot of different voices coming out of lebanon. not just from the christians and sunni muslim and drew community, but also from within the shia community. there's a huge change in the voices against hezbollah that basically you can say that fear that was held upon the lebanese public throughout the 40 plus years have been finally beginning to shatter upon our eyes and at the end of the day i think uh that as expected the lebanese governments needs to take more measurements in order to conceal u the ways that hezbollah is able to control lebanese territories >> right and to bring that uh those points back to iran. hussein, let me ask you, if you've heard the news, israel, at least israel defense minister, israel cats confirming the elimination of the uh head of military intelligence in iran, ismil katib, earlier today. uh how much is something like that impact on iran's ability to direct and influence its proxies be they those like hisbala who are attacking taking an active part in the war in israel is also degrading their ability but also others that uh like the houthis or the uh shiite militias in iraq who have who have been i think the expression has been sitting on their powder so to speak uh waiting to see just how this war will turn before before they act. >> so it seems that of all the proxies is the most independent and the most powerful. uh the houthis even though they're allied with iran and they got a lot of support over the years from iran. uh they're not pro they're not protes of iran. they're allies and now they they are probably hedging and they think that if they sit this war out then if the regime does not survive they have a chance of staying in power maybe they have a chance of uh being recognized by saudi arabia and the rest of the world. so theis seem to be uh trying to keep themselves out of this fight. as we saw was the earliest to jump in and uh as we said regardless of what happens in iran uh this war will go on even if the war in iran stops the war between israel and will go on until something happens until the lebanese government figures out how it can practice its own sovereignty. otherwise, israel will have to continue on policing, the militia in lebanon. now, the iraqi militias are an interesting case because they are weaker of the three. um, they don't have as much punch and power as uh in lebanon. and they do not dominate the government as much as in lebanon. and that's why we have seen some sort of a what what looks like a civil war, but it's not. uh the lebanese the the iraqi military has been countering the militias, has been uh controlling the militias and these militias in iraq have attacked uh iraqi military bases. so in iraq at least the government is trying to play a role and is trying to step up unlike the government in lebanon. uh whether the iraqis managed to put a lid on these militias remains to be seen, but i wouldn't say that uh when compared to i wouldn't say that the the iraqi militias are in a good position. and of course, you have to remember that the the chief of katbah, which is the most potent of the iraqi militias, uh this guy was was eliminated a few days ago. so these guys also are are facing trouble and unlikeah they haven't fought wars. they don't have a lot of experience and they're not as nearly uh well stocked in terms of of rockets, missiles and other kinds of ammunitions and weapons. >> right. and uh jonathan as you heard hussein sort of negatively comparing uh the lebanese government to the stance of the iraqi government. but we have seen some positive signs. uh the lebanese president joseph aun for example coming out and calling for talks with israel. but israel's been a little skeptical of that arguing really what's the talk until uh for example the lebanese government especially its army is ready to take on his bullet. do you agree with that or do you think israel perhaps should be more proactive? it may be coming under, for example, pressure from from the us, maybe some other international parties to try to be more proactive to enter a dialogue even under fire as it were uh with the lebanese government. yeah, we can see at the end of the day that the israeli government is proactive and trying to kind of assemble or or realize what will these talks lead to if they will sit on a face-to-face negotiation on the same table that that itself is a historic event that didn't happen since the 1980s and i think this is a positive step that israel should consider because at the end of the day alongside of military operation there needs to be some sort of uh diplomatic connection but i want to add on hussein's incredible remarks. at the end of the day, we need to look at the lebanese government in this atmosphere. in the last year and a half, almost 2 years, this is the first ever uh you can say uh sovereign lebanese government that ever acted in lebanon since the 1970s. and that was basically because the fall of the assad regime that finally this connection where the assad regime since the 70s were holding lebanon hostage, deciding on its uh uh actions, deciding on its political future and every decision that was taken by the lebanese government was dictated by the assad regime. so the lebanese government is still trying somewhat to understand or figure out how they are able to kind of uh control their own sovereignty that finally is theirs. we've seen that in the last 15 months before this ceasefire was broken by hezbollah on on march 2nd where at the end of the day the lebanese government tried to work you can say u um from the mind they tried to reach out to hezbollah to say to hezbollah listen you can continue on controlling lebanese territory. you can't continue on dragging lebanon into wars that has nothing to do with any lebanese cause because this is what happened on october 8th after hezbollah joined hamas uh um uh on their attack on israel on october 8th, 2023. and this is something that we need to understand at the end of the day that the lebanese government is also limited on that. and yes, i i kind of agree that israel and the us by the way um are very skeptical on the capabilities of the lebanese government to actually or the lebanese military and their own capabilities because let's let's face it, the lebanese military for the last 30 40 years have been underfunded. uh the personnel in the lebanese uh military are not well equipp well equipped and well trained to deal with this type of uh of threat from hezbollah because at the end of the day the only threat is not by the hezbollah's missiles. it's only by the majority of the weapons that they hold in their own uh bases that at the end of the day they might use against the lebanese public. and and one note regarding a civil war, i think we have a completely different case than the 1970s when the civil war emerged in lebanon between different sects of religions, between different communities that also from the same religion against each other. this time we have a majority of the lebanese public including the sunni muslim community, the jews community, uh the shia, half almost half of the shia community are against hezbollah this time and the christian community in lebanon. you have almost full majority of the lebanese public and parliament that are acting and wanting to end hezbollah's rule in lebanon on behalf of the islamic republic. so they might be clashes but at the end of the day i think there's a huge step from this to a civil war and we need to look at the end of the day who's threatening in civil war in lebanon. these are only personnel who's threatening to emerge a civil war. yet, at the end of the day, the lebanese public knows the reality. they know the truth. they know what is going on on the ground. and i think the lebanese government needs to take to step up and take action against hezbollah as much as possible. we've heard reports from the last few days that the lebanese government have held or arrested more than 50 personnel that are associated with hezbollah that were on their way to fight on the southern border uh uh with israel uh with ammunition in their cars. yet at the end of the day, these are small numbers. uh they need to act much more faster in order to kind of try and stop this war from dragging too long. >> all right. and uh hussein to refocus on iran itself. we're now in day 19 of the war. look, every day there's no question more and more blows against the regime, but president trump is coming under increasing political pressure domestically. fed item on related to that economic pressure due to the uh uh situation in the in the gulf in the straight of hormuz. at a certain point, he may have to simply just declare we've achieved or we can achieve at least in this stage of the war. uh what has to be done going forward beyond that for him to say declare victory but still in a sense keep the pressure up on a regime that we know has not say learned its lesson and that is likely just as it did after last june's war look to immediately rebuild its military and potentially nuclear infrastructure >> well it looks to me that time is not on the side of the iranian regime including the uh issue of the straight of hormuz uh because the iranians suddenly discovered that they cannot shut down this international waterway because they will anger their own friends um and their friends china mainly most of its oil passes through this trade. then you you have india then you have you know other powers uh who are not going to sit back and watch the iranians stop their uh energy shipments. so the iranians discovered that uh shutting down this waterway doesn't really affect the oil that goes to europe or to the united states. it affects the the oil that goes to china. so now we are seeing some sort of uh uh the iranians relaxing their chokeold on this rate. when this happens uh their ability to pressure the price to go up and to negatively influence the world economy will certainly weaken. so this is why i'm i'm saying time is is not on their side. uh we also see that their stock is dwindling in terms of uh uh ballistic missiles and drones and no one has the final number but everyone seems to think that they're not well stocked to uh to fight a long-term war. so the iranians are mostly bluffing. their statements are bluster. uh but we all know that they are reeling and they want an end to this. they have no idea how how to end this. now on on the side of president trump, we know that the u ultimate deadline would be 60 days. this is the uh the time the constitution gives the president to uh wage a military operation without uh having to go to congress and get uh war authorization. so i think we're still far off from the uh april 27, april april 28 deadline. uh but until then i'm not sure how much the iranians can really last um you know facing >> well let me let me just impress you on that. so what what what what do you expect if they do reach a sort of breaking point from this regime? uh what what do you what what is a realistic expectation? i mean what would you think they'd be willing to concede short of the regime toppling? uh we don't really see yet uh the street pro or the internal dissension. so what would you expect from those who are remaining alive from this regime willing to concede if they continue to take this pounding over the say the next month? >> look the this whole war is different from all the wars that preceded it. this is the first time that we see uh um targeting goes to the street level to the level of regular uh officers of the pasdan and the besiege. so we haven't dealt with something like this before that the regime itself gets uh uh weakened. uh will the people step up and take over? maybe. but because everything is unprecedented, we have to also think that this might not end up like uh other wars in terms of a ceasefire. we might not have a a date that everything stops. maybe um the the military operation winds down, the iranians uh stop firing without actually getting to a deal. uh and and and that's how it stops. we're not sure how these things unfold. what we are sure of is that as time goes by, as day by day, the iranian regime is getting weaker to the point that they might get to a point that they can't even negotiate a ceasefire because number one, they they've boxed themselves in a position where they refuse any ceasefire. and number two, there's no one to uh talk ceasefire to. i mean, you know, these guys, the president, the p the the foreign minister are really too weak to uh to instruct uh anyone to do anything in iran. um, and let me ask you then, jonathan, where do you think that leaves israel at at at at at this stage both either visav lebanon, but also in general visav all of the proxies uh and the policy israel's policy for in going forward in the kind of situation that hussein just described? >> yeah, as we're seeing at the end of the day, israel's mission or israel's goal to minimize the threat towards israeli citizens as much as possible. one of them is of course the iranian uh the islamic republic's uh uh nuclear uh aspirations. at the end of the day also the second level is the ballistic missile level where we can see although we need to you know say it clearly they are uh able still to fire ballistic missiles towards israel and every few hours we do have sirens and we do have uh um you know cluster uh missiles that are reaching uh tel aviv and and civil and and citizens areas inside of israel. at the end of the day, we've seen different story from the last june war, for example, the 12-day war where they have been able to fire much more rockets or ballistic missiles than they are capable right now. and at the end of the day is to make sure that all of israel's citizens are safe. and i think it's also um um kind of israel and the us are telling the entire international community this war is their war as well because at the end of the day the islamic republic of iran have been funding terror cells all across the world for the last 40 plus years. they have been spending almost $17 billion a year to fund the assad regime that fell just last year. uh in lebanon, the houthis uh also hamas and the islamic uh jihad in uh in gaza and and so on and so on and terror uh cells that we've just heard uh speaking uh in the gulf countries and at the end of the day it's not just israel and the us problem. it's the entire world's problem and we need to put an end to it. the iranian people deserve to live freely and this is not just for the iranian people but it's it's for the entire world. >> all right. all right. well, i think those are hopefully the world will have learned at least some of that that lesson given the way uh uh this war is going especially the way iran has reacted and i think those are good words to conclude this discussion with jonathan aluri and hussein abdul hussein there at the fdd. thank you for joining us on tv. >> thank you very much. now, we've talked quite a bit on this program analytically about the situation in uh the north in lebanon and along israel's northern border, but there is a human aspect of this as well. uh the residents of the north who have already endured over some two and a half years of being under constant fire from his bulla enjoyed maybe a brief brief period of respit and unfortunately are having to deal with that again and seeing how they're coping with it. let's speak to one of the residents there, giddy harrari. he is a resident of shuv there in northern israel. giddy, thank you for joining us. uh, okay. i just want to check uh, giddy, uh, could you, uh, i want to check that you can you hear me and can you speak? >> all right. i don't. >> sorry. yes, i can hear you. >> okay, now we hear you, giddy. first of all, giddy, let me just ask you, how was last night? >> last last night, it wasn't very much. no, not like other nights. it was um about 8:00 i think we had a a strike of 40 rockets. but it's not something that it's not similar to any other day that we have had here in the this last war or in the previous war. actually, we are used to it already. >> i mean that that that itself is a sad commentary, but you're used to it. but there must be some degree of frustration because it perhaps there was some hope after the ceasefire in november that there would be some kind of period of calm. what are the feelings uh there not specific you know in overall other than coping with it but finding having to find yourself in this situation again? it depends the the frustration. it depends who you who are you talking and who are you asking about it because most of us most of us understood very well at the previous ceasefire that the story never ended >> and the idf didn't didn't finish the job in lebanon as it as we would like it to be. uh so we we knew that we should expect that the war will come will will be renewed somehow. we didn't know how when and how it will happen but me myself and other people here we knew that it will come. we knew that the job wasn't done or wasn't finished and uh of course it's always it's always something that you are not expecting it and many people are frustrated yes because they say how come we didn't finish it before but uh actually and i see it most of the people came back home and most of the people remained at home and uh not left the north. and uh we're expecting we are expecting that this time uh we will finish this event either by disarming or achieving some kind of agreement which be a real agreement that the libanese government will disarm hisbala or or something but we cannot bear again to finish this event by some kind of agreement that doesn't finish somehow the war that we have in the north, >> right? are you prepared for the possibility that uh and then maybe you heard some of our analysts discussing this that we could come to an end of the war with iran, the current conflict in iran. uh but the the battle with his bull will have to will continue beyond that to achieve the kind of aims that you wish to achieve. which means unfortunately once again it will be the residents of the north that will be bearing the brunt of uh basically trying to secure at least one key front of this country. sadly, i say that in this event, in this war, the north front in israel is only a side effect to the big war that is between israel, the united states, and the best the best thing that we can hope for is that the regime, the iranian regime will fall and there will come there will come a new regime which will be much more much more liberal. and it will be very important for us because this will make his balah even weaker than he is today. and it will be easier for the libanese regime to disarm hisbala. but if it will if it will not happen this way, i believe that israel will find herself again going on with the with this war and campaign against hisbala while the americans stopping the war in the persian gulf. and this will be the not this is not the best the it's not the best end end game for us but it's not up to us because at the end of the day at the minute that the americans will get their interest in iran they will finish the war and we will be we will be stuck again here withbala either to go on fighting or uh stop the fighting and going back before february 28th >> right now getty beyond the military or strictly security aspect when we have this kind of situation in the north as we had uh for two and a half years after october 7th and in many other incidents before part of the public discussion is whether residents in those northern communities uh the real pioneers of israel on the border or close to the border are getting the kind of support they they need and require from the government or from local authorities. uh is that the case here? and if not, what what do more you or they or your neighbors would like to see up there in the north? >> of course, we would like to see this war finishing as soon as possible. as i told you, achieving some kind of agreement that will disarmed and will not be accessible to the south of lebanon and the lebanese regime will take over lebanon as expected of them. and also we would like the israeli administration to fulfill their promises to the locals here in the north to invest and renew the galile and improve our our life, our education, our health, everything because the situation right now is not is not good. we didn't finish recovering the area from the last war and we are already in the next one. and uh sadly i have to say that the israeli government is not is not accomplishing their promises to the to the settle to the public here. >> well, hopefully that that that will be taken care of. uh uh giddi harari also a lecturer at the amish center i should say. uh thank you for joining us and stay strong there in uh israel's north. >> we are strong. >> i'd say you are stay strong. thank you for joining us. >> thank you very much >> and thank you for joining us. that ends this broadcast. continue to follow us on our social media platforms or on app. there's a qr code. i'm kala bendid and stay tuned for all the latest developments here on ilv.