# YouTube Video Voc9aQjRCXY

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Voc9aQjRCXY
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 3418 词

---

The spring has arrived and Russia is supposed to be making its warending offensive. Finally, cover is appearing and the weather is getting better. But the same old story is playing out for Putin. He orders advances and his soldiers die. Russia just had its worst month of the entire war and Ukraine had its best as the spring offensive has collapsed and Russia's war machine burnt. Record casualties, a new milestone reached, and an advance rate so humiliating that Russia may as well have spent March doing absolutely nothing are all lowlights for Putin that we're going to explore as the video goes on. But we're going to start with what Ukraine has done directly to make March 2026 the worst month of the war so far for Putin's forces. And we can sum that up in three words. Ukraine hit everything. As Russia begins its spring push that is supposed to deliver the inevitable into Putin's lap, Ukraine has been amplifying its deep strike strategy to a level that Russia never expected. Strategic targets have been hit all over Russia in what Euromidan press dubs a March harvest. Five factories, 10 oil refineries, oil plants, and air defenses have all been destroyed with Ukraine's Ministry of Defense itself stating that March 2026 has been one of the largest months in terms of the sheer number of strategic targets that Ukraine has hit inside Russia itself. Let's start with the factories then. Five of Russia's key factories have been hit over the course of the month. Starting with the Kremni Lant, which is in the border region of Briansk, known as one of Russia's largest micro electronic enterprises. This factory is where Russia makes the microchips that are later placed inside its Iscandanda ballistic missiles as well as in its air defenses. Ukraine has ruined this factory by taking out a production building and a component warehouse used to store the equipment that Russia needs to make its missile chips. Russia's entire missile supply chain fell apart with this one strike. For the next 6 months, Russia won't be able to make the microchips it needs for many of its missiles. Repairs have to be completed. And with Brians being so close to the border with Ukraine, we're willing to bet that the Security Service of Ukraine or SBU is watching and waiting for Russia to get just about so far with its repair work before another drone or 10 is launched to take out the Kreml plant once again. But that's just one of five. In Olanovsk, Ukraine hit the Aviastar aircraft plant, taking out a climate controlled shelter and several of the IL76 and L78 aircraft being stored at the plant. Avia makes and maintains heavy transport aircraft. Uramidan press reports. So losing it has a crippling effect on Russian logistics. No heavy cargo aircraft means a slowdown in the shuttling of equipment and troops throughout Russia and Ukraine. Plus Ukraine took out a plant that keeps Russia's aerial refueling tank is in good condition. So we'll see an impact on Russia's aerial power too. The hits keep on coming with the 123rd aircraft repair plant which is in Star Rousa in the Nogarod oblast of Russia. Yet more of Ukraine's rain down and they hit hangers storing IL76 aircraft along with hitting missile defense aircraft and the storage facilities Russia uses to keep its anti-aircraft missile safe. This was yet another blow against Russia's aircraft maintenance facilities, which in turn puts even more pressure on Russia's internal logistics. Next up was Alchevk and the metallurgical plant that carries the region's name. Ukraine strike caused a massive fire at the facility which builds artillery shell casings and is involved in the production of the armored steel that is used in a lot of the military equipment required by the Russian armed forces. So bye-bye mechanized assaults and finally there's Sevastapole where Ukraine hit granite. Why does that matter? Granite is an innovation center and according to Ukraine's Ministry of Defense, it's the only center that Russia has in Crimea that is capable of repairing S400 air defense systems. You can guess what this means. More strikes against Crimea are incoming and Russia won't be able to do much about them as its S400 network falls apart. This is bad for Russia and we're just getting started. The Kremlin is already responding to Ukraine's strikes by trying to move its production facilities as far away as possible. That's what's happening with the Rosscosmos facility that was in Kimi which is in the Moscow region. That facility is being moved to s which is in Siberia and the Eural Mountains region of Pam. in what Ross Cosmos is trying to frame as a move being made to increase efficiency. That makes sense. We all know that efficiency is achieved by moving your production plants as far away from the places where they're most needed. It's all nonsense. Of course, Ross Cosmos is moving its plants away from the Moscow region because it's been watching what happened in March, and it knows that Moscow is well within range of Ukraine's drones. This isn't a move made for efficiency. It's literally running away from the problem. And can you blame Rosscosmos? After all, it's not like Ukraine is showing any signs of slowing down with its strikes against Russia's industrial complex. On April 4th, United 24 media reported that SBU drones had scored another successful strike against the Alchevka Metallurgical plant that we just mentioned. That's the second hit in a month, and it shows us that Ukraine has a strategy in place. Everything that Ukraine has hit once is probably going to be hit again. And if there's anything that shows us how effective that particular strategy is, it's what Ukraine has been doing to Russia's oil sector. Throughout March, ports and refineries are burning. In Aphipsky and Albashinft, a pair of refineries were hit by Ukraine's drones. Both made diesel fuel, which is transported from the facilities to Russia's southern military group in Ukraine. In Nova Cisk, Ukraine hit the Shescaris oil terminal and launched a devastating attack against Port Kavkaz. Those are hubs that Russia relies on to transport oil via the Black Sea to its customers as well as to get fuel to the warships in the Black Sea fleet. In Saratov, another refinery was hit and the same happened in Karishi and Yaroslav. What we see here is the whittling away of Russian resources that are responsible for creating aviation fuel along with other products that stabilize Russia's domestic fuel sector. Then there were the headline strikes. Primorsque and Luga both are homes to ports Russia needs to keep its oil exports flowing throughout the Baltic Sea and onto its customers around the world. And both have been hit again and again by Ukraine during the latter half of March. Remember this is the strategy we told you about. Hit it once, let Putin know that the drones can reach it. And before Russia can do much of anything to respond, hit it over and over again until it's gone. Luga was hit five times in March with strikes being recorded on March 22nd, 25th, 27th, 29th, and 31st. Reut has reports that Ukraine has hit the Primorsek oil terminal so many times that at least 40% of the terminal's oil storage facilities have been lost forever. Back in Luga, the terminal was still on fire 7 days after Ukraine carried out its first strike, as highlighted in pictures shared on X by the special Keran CAT open- source intelligence account. There is no chance for Russia to claim that this was a minor strike or that Ukraine's drone debris did a little bit of damage. One of Russia's most important ports is a smoke-filled fiery hell hole. And no matter how hard the fires are fought, they keep on growing and are being made worse with every strike that Ukraine completes. Here's where this gets really serious for Russia. In a March 25th report, to keep Independent called what was happening a historic low as Russia's oil exports plummeted off a cliff. Bear in mind that there were more Ukrainian drones to come, especially at Osluga. Ukraine had essentially halted 40% of Russia's entire export capacity with its attacks against Primoskluga and others stopping Russia from selling its oil at a time when the war in Iran has led to prices for a single barrel rocketing up to and beyond $100. Russia should be raking in the cash right now, but instead it's dealing with fires of indescribable magnitude at the very ports that were meant to be its liquid gold lifelines. On the refinery front, the Moscow Times reported on March 30th that Russia now faces a fuel production crunch. Ukraine has intelligently combined its destruction of at least 40% of Russia's export capacity with attacks against facilities that make the fuel that Russia is trying to sell or send to its troops. And here's where it gets really clever. Ukraine's attacks against Primosk and Osluga prevent Russia from shipping its oil. That has a knock-on effect against the stricken refineries. Even if they're able to produce their products, Russia has nowhere for those products to go, they have to be stored at the refineries until the log jam clears. And there's only so much space for that storage before the refineries have to shut down and simply wait for everything to clear up. This is an indirect shutdown to go along with the chaos of the drone strikes. And if Ukraine keeps on hitting the oil terminals in places like Novasisk, Primosk, and Usluga, Russia is going to have a whole lot of fuel and oil with nowhere to go. Oh, and one more thing before we move on to Russia's wrecked air defenses. On April 1st, a Kev Post reported that Roseneft, which is one of Russia's oil giant companies, had reported that its net income fell by 73% in 2025. A combination of high taxes on profits, high interest rates, and one-off factors, which roughly translates to sanctions, and drones erecking our operations, led to the company making just $3.6 billion last year. Sure, this sounds like a lot of money, but that figure representing a 73% decline is bad for Ross Nef, which makes it bad for Russia. Less oil being sold means less revenue for the Kremlin to attacks. And now that terminals and refineries are burning, Ross Neft is staring down the barrel of a 2026 gun that is ready to fire in its face. We haven't even gotten to the air defenses yet, and it's already clear that March 2026 has been a horrendous month for Russia in its war against Ukraine. There's a lot more coming, but before we get to that, this is a quick reminder that you are watching the Military Show. If you haven't subscribed yet, now is the perfect time to hit that button so you don't miss one of our videos. Now, back to air defenses. Russia lost a lot of them to Ukrainian strikes in March. A dozen S300 and S400 air defense systems were taken out during the course of the month. These are both longrange air defense systems that Russia relies on to take out drones and missiles. Granted, they haven't been doing their jobs very well. Ukraine wouldn't have been able to hit Russia as hard as it has in March if they were. But Russia would rather have them than not. Now it doesn't. Adding to these losses was the destruction of 10 of Russia's medium and short-range air defense systems including torm pancier S1 Tonguska and various versions of the Buck air defense units. All are being used in Russia's near and deep rear to fend off Ukrainian drones. The irony of course is that it's the very drones that these air defenses are supposed to be stopping that are taking them out of the war. Plus, remember Crimea? You'd be forgiven for forgetting, as we've been rattling off so many March strikes that it's easy to lose track, but Ukraine also took out a repair and maintenance facility that keeps Russia's S400's up and running. So, we're seeing Ukraine take out multiple layers of Russian air defenses, and not just in terms of destroying units across the range spectrum. Ukraine is also hitting the means of repair and maintenance, meaning that Russia's damaged units aren't going to be making it back out onto the battlefield. The strikes against air defenses are important because they open the door for everything else we've talked about in this video. Factories and oil refineries are burning because Ukraine spent as much of March carving out safe aerial corridors as it did on hitting those key facilities. This is a complex strategy and it's one that Ukraine is employing against the occupied territories as much as it is inside Russia itself. The Kev Independent highlights that, noting that an analysis of 1,530 verified Ukrainian strikes in Russia and the occupied territories carried out between June 2025 and March 2026, revealed that 492 of those strikes targeted air defense infrastructure. Several hundred more targeted anti-access and aerial denial assets such as electronic warfare units and command systems. This is a clear degradation of Russia's air defenses. And we're seeing the impact in Russia's burning oil terminals and its shattered factories. And just to rub a little salt in the Russian air defense wound, all of this happened to Russia in a month when Ukraine's air defenses performed better than they have in months. According to the Defense of Ukraine X account, Ukraine's air defense efficiency has increased by 9.7 percentage points over the last 4 months. Right now, Ukraine is at 89.9% efficiency, having been at 80.2% 2% back in December. And it has a target of reaching 95% efficiency through its combination of Western air defenses and homegrown assets such as the interceptor drones that it's been deploying against Russia's Shahid type drones. Ukraine is getting better at defending against aerial threats while Russia faces more of those types of threats than ever before. And that's why March 2026 was the worst month of the war for Russia so far. Gotcha. There is even more to cover as Russia's woes in the skies are being compounded by an absolutely disastrous start to the spring and summer offensive that is supposed to lead to Russia taking the Dombas and large swades of Ukraine's southern territory. Putin would have hoped he could console himself with gains in Ukraine even as factories, oil infrastructure, and air defenses burned. Putin was wrong. Heading to the ground, we see that March 2026 was the first month in 2 and 1/2 years that Russia made precisely no net gains on the ground in Ukraine. That's according to the Independent, which points out the same month saw Ukraine recapture 9 km or about 3.47 miles of its own territory as Russia's ground assault has been rattled by continued communications problems caused by the loss of Starink and Putin's own campaign against the Telegram messaging app. What this tells us is that the spring offensive, which has been marked by Russia launching more assaults against Ukraine's defenses in March than it has at any other time in 2026, has gotten off to a bad start. Scratch that. This is the equivalent of an Olympic sprinter hearing the starting gun and running backwards before falling flat on their face. If Putin were paying attention, he might have seen this coming. Russia's gains in Ukraine have been slowing down for a long time. As the Institute for the Study of War pointed out in a March 31st assessment of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, it says that the period between October 2025 and March 26 saw Russia seize just 1,929.69 km or about 745.06 miles. That's already a low figure, but it even pales in comparison to the October 2024 to March 25 period when Russia was able to capture 2,716.57 km or about 1,048.87 miles of Ukraine. Russia's forces are stalling out on the ground even as the spring offensive officially gets underway. And they've just hit the grimmst of milestones. As Putin feeds more meat into the grinder, Russia has surpassed 1.3 million casualties in the war. That's according to Minfin, which puts its official figure at 1,33,550 casualties as of April 5th. That's a catastrophic number of losses. It's certainly more than the losses experienced by any modern military. For context, the US and its coalition allies suffered 3,486 deaths during Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. per the UK's Help the Heroes charity. That was an operation that lasted for 13 years between October 2001 and December 2014. Russia hasn't even hit a third of that time in its Ukraine invasion, and it suffered a casualty count that makes it seem like Putin is waging a war against his own military. March was a big contributor to getting Russia over the line in reaching a new milestone that no modern military should ever reach. March 17th saw Russia record a record-breaking day as it lost 1,710 of its soldiers, which is the most recorded in 2026 so far. It's only going to get worse for Putin. As Russia's latest offensive intensifies, it seems almost inevitable that we're going to see several days where Russia burns through more than 2,000 of its soldiers in 24 hours. Compounding this issue is that March was yet another month when Russia's volunteer recruitment was lower than its losses on the battlefield. Confirmed Russian losses were 89,000 between January and March 2026. United 24 media reported on April 1st. The real number is likely much higher, perhaps even veering above 100,000, as these are only losses that Ukraine has been able to confirm on camera. The same period has seen Russia recruit just 80,000 new soldiers, the same outlet reports. That means it's well behind its target of recruiting 409,000 by the end of 2026. and it's falling below target at a time when its casualty count is on the rise. None of this is good for Putin. So, how has Russia's failing president responded? If you think he's going to change Russia's approach or do anything that could reverse the flow of losses on the battlefield and inside its own territory, then you haven't been paying attention for the last 4 years. Putin has no new ideas. But what he and his Kremling cronies do have are threats. Hilariously, Russia has looked at the shambles that March 2026 has proven to be and decided that now is the perfect time to tell Ukraine that it needs to seed the Dumbbas. On March 31st, Ukrainian President Vladimir Zilinski reported that Ukraine has been told by Russia that it must withdraw its forces from the Dumbbas within the next 2 months. Putin's mouthpiece, Dmitri Pascov, has doubled down on this demand, stating that Zalinsky should make this decision for the sake of Ukrainian troops right now to save them from the horror that Russia is going to inflict. Has Putin been watching the same war as everybody else? Russia has its worst month of the Ukraine war ever in March 2026, and it decides that now is the time to make demands of Ukraine. withdraw from the Dombas and Russia promises to stop losing record amounts of troops and air defenses and will also be gracious enough to allow Ukraine to stop hitting our oil infrastructure and factories. It's a ridiculous demand and it shows how disconnected the Kremlin is from the realities of what's happening on the battlefield and inside its own territory. This is Russian desperation. And if March 2026 is any indication, there will be no withdrawal, just more firepower delivered to Russia by a Ukrainian military, that is in a very clear resurgence. The march from hell may be over, but worse is to come for Russia. Putin's narrative of an overwhelming force coming to topple Ukraine has collapsed. Experts are saying that Ukraine is finishing this war, as we're hitting a turning point that goes anywhere but Putin's way. Find out more in our video and remember to subscribe to the Military Show for more coverage of the latest developments in Ukraine's defense of its territory against Russian aggression. And thank you as always for watching.