# YouTube Video jcdscbenQtw

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jcdscbenQtw
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 2296 词

---

Most people don't care about politics. Yep. And I get it. I used to feel like that some years back. But now I understand that politics is part and parcel of everything that we do. If you want to accumulate wealth is going to be affected by the politics of the day. The people who we call them poor they are designated to be poor by politics. So that some of the government can consolidate power and control these people. That's how politics work. I understand sometimes politics feels far way too complicated and sometimes it feels useless. But let me tell you something. You might start wanting to start caring today or even start to think you know politically and see what is happening globally you know around your country because politics is going to affect us in a very bad way. You see what is happening right now? The ongoing conflict is going to heat your pockets. It's going to leave most of your pockets empty. It's going to affect your fuel tank. It's going to affect your food. It's going to affect your life. Some people will fall out of relationships. And you know what will be the excuse? The straight of homos. I mean the straight of homos. I know most of you already know what that means. But some of you haven't heard about that that that word the ongoing conflict about US, Israel and Iran. Most of you are watching this war as if it's just any other war on the news. That's what we are doing. But you don't know how it's going to affect our lives. But let me tell you about it. There's a place called the street of Homos. I just mentioned it. You've never heard about it. But can I tell you that your life depends on that because about 30% of the world's oil shipping passes through that small route and now you can imagine this most of the ship from the enemy states the way I run they're saying the street of humus is not closed it's open but it's restricted for our enemy you know who the enemy is anyone who is related uh to the United States and Israel That's the enemy. So now most of the ships that are you know friendly with the aan they're still passing through the street. Now we are starting to see the ripple effects across the globe because the oil and gas prices they going they are hiking and we all know that when the oil price start rising everything else starts rising becomes expensive. But now you might ask yourself, how is it going to affect some other countries like in Africa? Haven't you heard or seen the government start giving some slightly lowkey warnings about our reserves because they are they are running low? &gt;&gt; As of March 30th, 2026, the country held 138,623 metric tons of petrol for 16 days consumption. So the worst case scenario is that the war progresses for inordinately too long and in which case then it will disrupt there will be this continued disruption of the supply chain. It is because G2G the way it was fashioned is a is is a cabal of patronage and it has perated from down &gt;&gt; the oil and gas that is used in Kenya uh about 90% of it comes from UAE and Saudi Arabia which passes through the street of Homos. So now you know we have about 19 days of reservoir. So that raises another question that I don't want to touch about today. We can do that in another podcast because ask yourself the government knows that these are risks that can you know happen any time, any day, any year. Why didn't we focus on you know having bigger reservos that can run like some other countries they have reserves that can take them up to 90 days? Those are 3 months of oil and gas supplies but in Kenya 19 days and we waste billions. Anyway, that wasn't the point. I digress. Let's go back to the straight of Homus. You see the the oil prices are rising and that's the the world's ripple effect where everything else is rising together with the oil. Now came the US the orchestrators of the illegal war. It's called illegal war orchestrators of this conflict. You know what Donald Trump said recently in his press briefing? He was saying that they started the war. Now the people who needs gas and they need oil can't go and finish it because they started it. They called for help. Nobody showed up. Why did you start the war in the first place and then he boost about how much oil they have and it was strategic when US attacked Venezuela and captured Nicolas Maduro. It was all strategic because they wanted to get more oil reserves. Right now, US says that they don't depend on straight of homos. It's all right. It's all right. But there's something that you don't know. The world the world oil market is a one market. It's a global market and it's one. Doesn't matter how much oil the US has. That's why today what is the price of oil in the US? What is the price of gas and fuel in the US? It's rising. Why is it rising? if they have enough surplus and then you know what Donald Trump said &gt;&gt; in a post of truth social he said all of those countries that can't get jet fuel because of the straight of hormuz like the UK which refused to get involved in the decapitation of Iran I have a suggestion for you number one buy from the US we have plenty number two build up some delayed courage go to the strait and just take it you'll have to start learning how to fight for yourself the USA won't be there to help you anymore or just like you weren't there for us. Iran has been essentially decimated. The hard part is done. Go get your own oil. Well, that statement from President Trump comes as Buffingham has. &gt;&gt; You listen to whatever Donald Trump talks about and whatever he's saying and you're like, this is a global leader. This is one of the most powerful leaders in the world. But the way he talks, the way he articulates things, the way he articulates issues, the way he talks, he doesn't talk like a global leader. And then he tells the rest of the world that you can go and get your own oil. If you if you don't have oil, you can buy from the US or you can go and get your own oil. Why did you start the conflict in the first place? It has been said, it has been researched. There is evidence that Iran in the first place did not pose any danger to the US to to the world to the to the Middle East. But remember when I told you politics sometimes are far way much complicated. This is why &gt;&gt; remember because of our drill baby drill program. America has plenty of gas. We have so much gas under my leadership. We are number one producer of oil and gas on the planet. Without even discussing the millions of barrels that we're getting from Venezuela because of the Trump administration's policies, we produce more oil and gas than Saudi Arabia and Russia combined. Think of that. Saudi Arabia and Russia combined. And that number will soon be substantially higher than that. There's no country like us anywhere in the world. then we're in great shape for the future. The United States imports almost no oil through the Hormo Strait and won't be taking any in the future. We don't need it. We &gt;&gt; and it's funny how the US you know strategized this because in the first place they thought that decapitating uh Iran's leadership that was the end of it and now they talk about they have decapitated Iran's leadership and then they tell us that Iran has a new leaders new leaders who are reasonable who are willing to negotiate new leaders looks like the same president to me it looks like the same leadership They might have taken their top leadership but Iran replaced the same literally the same people. Kam was hate. They replaced him with even a better faster stronger Kamina. So what are we talking about? Which decapitation? Which regime have you toppled? because this is what the US is making us believe that they have toppled the the the US lead the Iran's leadership. &gt;&gt; We're going to bring them back to the stone ages where they belong. In the meantime, discussions are ongoing. Regime change was not our goal. We never said regime change, but regime change has occurred because of all of their original leaders death. They're all dead. the new group is less radical and much more reasonable. &gt;&gt; This conflict wasn't necessary to be started in the first place. This conflict could have been thought and that's why Obama dur during the Obama administration he had the they could have done or started the same but he was more reasonable. He was more reasonable cuz he thought about all this. He thought about all this and you see what uh Trump is talking about Obama Obama administration giving about 1.7 billion to Iran that was not funding Iran that money was meant to compensate Iran over some weapons deal they had done for about $400 million US and then the weapons were never supplied. So because of the interest and everything that accured over time when Obama administration came in then he had to compensate them because it had acruled to around$ 1.7 billion US Iran is not just like any other country because now US tells us that they've hit everything they've hit their air defense force their navy is finished everything is toppled but just recently I think about Yesterday a jet fighter a US jet fighter was hit by UN Iran's air defense system. So how did that happen? Because Iran continue hating even the neighboring country countries in the Middle East. So how does that happen? This is a conflict that is affecting everybody globally and it's illegal. It's unnecessary. It didn't have to happen. It didn't have to happen. Right now, countries in Africa, I saw in Philippines. &gt;&gt; The Philippines says it has received a shipment of diesel from Japan. This comes as a Southeast Asian nation struggles. &gt;&gt; Pakistan has now said it'll raise prices for diesel by nearly 55%. India &gt;&gt; India is no exception. Despite asurances from the government, people were seen flocking to &gt;&gt; It's a global crisis. It's a global crisis. It's going to affect basically everyone. That's why I told you if it doesn't leave your pockets empty, it's going to affect your fuel tank. It's going to affect your food. It's going to affect your life. It's a conflict that was unnecessary and it doesn't seem like it's going to end because the US is thinking we're going to take now to the next level and attack the Kaga Island. Kaga island is basically the main island where uh Iran depends on the production of oil because most of the oil that is shipped to China and many other countries is done on this small island. So the US strategy is to attack this Kag island and take about the because that they're talking about soldiers and boots on the ground. But this is something that Iran has been preparing for over 20 years. They knew a time like this would come and you know what they say when they told that uh US is planning about boots on the ground. &gt;&gt; Boots on the ground in Iran. Are are you afraid of a US invasion in your country? &gt;&gt; No, we are waiting for them. &gt;&gt; You &gt;&gt; we are waiting for them. We've been waiting for them. That is scary. That tells you if I was me, if I was Donald Trump, I don't want to prove to the world that we have the best or the most sophisticated military in the world. I would just like want to leave it from there. These are people who have lost. These are people who have nothing else left but to def to defend their sovereignity, to defend their country. These are people who have dedicated their lives to defend their sovereignity. So this conflict is going to affect our lives really bad. It's going to make most of us. Now there are many countries who have started like telling their employees that can they cannot go to work to reduce uh you know the gas and uh oil usage and traffic and things like this. But how long can this be sustained? How long can people work at home? Some companies they've started downsizing the number of their employees. So you see how it's going to affect most of us. It's going to affect a lot of people. There are those countries who are self-dependent. Yes, they produce their own oil like most of the country countries in the Middle East. But the food surplus and most of their food is shipped. They don't do farming. So most of their food comes or rather passes through the street of Homos. And let let me not even start thinking about Africa cuz when I think about Kenya and I think about the 19 days that we have and I think about a corrupt regime, I don't even know