# YouTube Video Lck3kX9IajU

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lck3kX9IajU
**字数：** 18363 词

---

good morning everybody. it's monday, march 30th, and here's what's on the agenda. signs of escalation in the middle east keep stocks under pressure. oil and alum aluminium prices gain and bond investors pivot to growth concerns. well, here's how we start the week in markets. anna, nervous futures lower here in europe by 8/10en of a percent, the us futures have just turned slightly positive. it comes back to oil on the geopolitics. brent opening above $116 a barrel. we're just shy of that now. but look at the short the the longer end of the treasury curve with the concern has turned from inflation to growth and now we're seeing yields lower. the 10ear at 438. the countdown to the opening trade starts right now. good morning everybody. it is 7:00 7:01 in fact here in london. so just an hour away from the start of the trading day. and let's think about the iran story and how it has escalated lizzy over the weekend. another morning where we find ourselves taking stock of the the ways that we've seen escalation taking place and that seems to be where the market's head is at where the market is focused. so, we've seen the houthis entering uh the the conflict, which is a sign of escalation. we've seen uh further us troops arriving and an expectation of more uh to come in the region. a saudi air base was hit on friday, 15 wounded in that event. and we've seen president trump musing on the possibility of taking car island, of taking iranian oil. he's saying he in an interview with the ft has been held back by others in the us who said that would be a terrible idea and a bad thing to do. but these are ways that the market is watching this this this conflict uh escalate and it is that that the market is focused on this morning. >> yeah. you mentioned the houthi rebels entering the conflict. that's important because so far saudi arabia has managed to reroute some of its oil uh around the straight of hormuz but the houthies could complicate that. the red sea port of yanbu is within their missile range. so we watch that from an oil perspective. uh you mentioned the per the possibility that trump could take the oil in iran via car island that in the ft interview. you also uh have little sign that iran and the us are going to meet for peace talks soon. there was hope that it could happen in pakistan. pakistan says it's willing to facilitate this. but so far what we've only seen are the foreign ministers of pakistan, turkey and egypt meeting there uh to discuss how to end the war and in the meantime gulf countries increasingly frustrated with the us the apparent lack of strategy from the white house. >> right. and it is worth throwing into the mix then as we've talked about ways that this is escalating, the ways that president trump is talking about this and and and the progress that he is claiming. he's talking about talks and he says that iran has given us 50 of you know most of the 15 demands. now our reporting suggests that iran has pushed back on those 15 and has instead offered five of its own in terms of conditions including iranian sovereignty over the straits of hormuz which no doubt would be controversial to many. so we are watching the the complicated and unclear nature of whatever talks are happening. yes, messages are being passed via intermediaries between the two, but any more than that is very difficult to pinpoint. and as you say, pakistan has offered to host the two nations. we will wait and see whether we get any progress there because president trump does say an agreement could be coming soon. >> yes. but in the meantime, because of this escalation or perceived escalation on both sides, oil higher this morning. still just shy of $116 a barrel. in fact, we're up 2.2% at just over $115 a barrel. now on concerns though of a wider longer war in the middle east brent up around 60% so far this month and it's having a realworld impact. south korea considering the first driving curbs in 35 years for civil servants. australia looking to temporarily have its fuel tax to fuel consu to shield consumers. and we've got a great long read on how the fuel crunches are soon going to start heading west as well. >> yeah, absolutely. and that was one of the messages coming out of sarah week last week, wasn't it? and plenty of energy executives saying, "look, this is already a a very present experience in asia and it will become more so in europe over over days and weeks to come if this if this persists." there was talk of this being like the 1970s for europe, surging prices of oil, caros, diesel shortages. so, we'll watch to see if we get that. we know that certain uh um leaders, finance ministers, central bank has certainly focused on this and some of them meeting today remotely to talk about this. aluminum, aluminium is an area of focus for us overnight as well because there we've seen over the weekend we see we saw certain facilities that uh produce aluminium being hit in the middle east and that region is responsible for 9% of the global global supply of aluminum. and it is also um a a crucial a crucial metal that goes into manufacturing. the second most used after after steel in the manufacturing process. >> yeah. used in cars, planes, solar panels. so if you get a sustained price rise for aluminum, aluminium, then it would put even more pressure on manufacturers and inflation as well. talking though of the wider market reaction this morning, i mentioned that in fact the concern has pivoted now from inflation to growth. >> yeah, absolutely. so bond markets giving us the first taste of what we've been discussing for a couple of weeks, lizzy. the fact that bond markets had initially focused on inflation and so yields have gone higher. but could we see a time when bond markets decide that actually this is going to be persistent enough that we're going to have to start to worry about a growth impact? and that does seem to be what we're getting today. so has the narrative changed around the bond markets? when we look at treasuries, we look at the australian market, the japanese market, jgbs, we are seeing yields coming down certainly at the 10-year and certainly at the shorter end on the japanese curve, but across the curve on treasuries and on aussies. now, we're not unwinding the big spike that we've seen in yields over recent weeks through the month of march. but it does reflect uh something of a tipping point perhaps and we'll watch to see whether this is continued. so, are there risks for the global economy, for the us economy? we're seeing certain bond houses now pretty comfortable with betting on yields coming down. so this is pimco, jp morgan, columbia, thread needle. they're also they're all saying that the markets are going to increasingly have to prepare for a growth hit. uh not just the inflation impact that we've seen the markets focus on up to now. >> and goldman seeing the chance of an economic downturn over the next 12 months at 30%. pimco a more than one-third chance according to them. that's the bond market impact. in terms of stocks, as i say, we have futures lower here in europe, following the losses that we already saw in the asia session, particularly in korea and japan. the msei pacific index at its lowest level this year on those concerns that you site about economic growth. um, but futures state side actually turning positive. now, we've had that 2-day slide on the nasdaq into a 10% correction and the 2-day drop on the s&p 500, the biggest in a year and last week. >> yeah, and it does seem that europe has some catching up to do with the negativity during friday's session on wall street. so, we'll watch for that at the start of trade. that is still around uh 53 minutes away. let us tell you about some of the stories that are coming or some of the conversations, sorry, we're going to be having today. we'll be talking about emerging markets and the debt story there because we are seeing uh the the the global narrative around emerging markets uh really interesting with the stronger dollar in mind. we'll talk to elina theodora copaloo manu life emerging market debt portfolio manager. we'll also speak to richard salana from aviva global equity portfolio manager. so where are we in the equities narrative and how does a changing bond market story get picked up by uh equity markets? what's the inflation uh the pricing power look like for global stocks? all of that in focus and lindsay newman will be with us, king's college, london visiting research fellow to talk about the latest on iran. >> let's also take a look at what else we're watching throughout the week. today we have german cpi data. before tomorrow, euro area and french cpi data as the french president emanuel mong visits japan and south korea on wednesday. on wednesday, we have the arteimus 2 launch and us retail sales data as well. on thursday, it's us jobless claims. and then on friday, it's good friday, so major financial markets will be closed in europe and the us, but we do get that us unemployment data. to be precise, on good friday, treasury futures and equity futures close a little bit early. so there will be some market reaction when it comes to that jobs data. >> it will certainly be falling into a quiet market though, won't it? but i mean, but the data, would it have got much attention anyway? will the cpi data get much attention this week? i wonder whether the cpi actually in europe and other parts some parts of asia maybe that will actually get quite a bit of attention because the inflation story being as prominent as it as it is right now. this will be our first look at eurozone inflation for the month of march and we are expecting to see the impact of the war starting to come through. so an uptick from 1.9% past month which of course is nicely below target for the ecb and that's the narrative we've been telling coming into this year. we are expecting that to go up to 2.6% 6% for the month of march. and so that is going to be something that the markets will be focusing on. >> and it will be interesting to see whether the ecb's forecasts will prove accurate when we get this read on the actual data. >> let's tell you some of the other stories that we're covering for you this morning. french authorities have detained two new suspects over an attempted bombing near a bank of america office in paris. the french interior minister says the device was planted by juveniles or young men who were paid to carry out the plan. officials have said the plot is likely linked to the conflict in the middle east. france has stepped up security around jewish and us affiliated sites since the iran war began. the uk chancellor rachel reeves will urge g7 partners to boost domestic energy supplies and warned the recent surge in oil and gas prices is playing into vladimir putin's hands. reeves will speak with finance and energy ministers and central bankers in an online call later today. uh we're told she'll call for allies to ramp up investment in renewable energy and nuclear power to wean themselves off gas. and nasa is still targeting wednesday for the launch of its mission to fly astronauts around the moon. the four astronauts of the historic arteimus 2 mission have arrived in florida. they are slated to climb inside the oran crew capsule on april 1st, perched on top of nasa's massive space launch system rocket. from there, they will start a 10-day journey that will send them around the moon and deeper into space than any humans have gone before. >> we have the opportunity to answer the question that could be the question of our lifetime, which is, are we alone? when we go out and meet people, people ask that all the time. have have you seen evidence of this? what what can we learn? and the fact is that answering that question starts at the moon. the moon is a witness plate to our entire solar systems formation. it's a stepping stone to mars where we might have the most likelihood of finding evidence of past life, but it's also a rosetta stone for how other solar systems form. >> well, coming up here on earth, red sea risks are back in focus as yemen's houthies enter the iran war. we'll take a closer look at implications for the shipping industry and global supply chains. plus, hsbc ceo george elder says he's been ruthless in his approach to simplifying the lender. we'll get you some of our interview later on in the show. but up next, we'll be joined by thanos papasavas, founder and cio of abp invest. so, if you've got any questions of your own for our guests, please do send them to us on ib plusbtv go. good morning from london. this is bloomberg. sir, could you foresee a deal in iran this upcoming week? >> i do see a deal in iran. yeah, >> mr. president, >> could be soon offered a 15-point plan to iran. did they ever come back? >> yeah, they came back on the 15point plan. they gave us most of the points. president trump telling reporters on air force one that he believes an agreement could come soon, but the nature of any direct negotiations remains pretty unclear beyond messages being exchanged via third parties. earlier on sunday, trump talked of seizing iran's oil resources, a move that would mark a major escalation in the conflict. let's bring in bloomberg horizon's anchor jamaica beti who's with us from dubai. jamanna, good morning to you. another monday uh working out where we are in the risk escalation around this despite apparent talks then to end the war. everything on the ground is pointing toward escalation. so tell us more. >> that's exactly it an you just heard some sound there from president trump suggesting that they could make a deal in the next few days but certainly there's no indication that these negotiations are actually underway at least direct or indirect negotiations between us and iran. everything on the ground is pointing to further escalation. now, of note, friday evening, we had the first uh unit of these marine expeditionary units arriving to the middle east. that's around 3,500 troops, 2,200 marines. lots of questions about how they're going to be deployed, whether uh there will be some form of an attempt to take over car island, which is what he referenced in that interview with the ft. you just spoke about that. wall street journal saying that maybe they could attempt a targeted raid to extract the enriched uranium stockpile that is on iranian territory. at this point, we don't really know, but the fact that it has arrived to the region suggests the real possibility of further military escalation. at the same time, we talk about an intensification of military operations. on friday evening, uh israel struck a couple of steel facilities in iran. they also hit a couple of nuclear research sites. uh on sunday also shrapnel hit parts of an electricity grid into which caused temporary blackouts. and in retaliation to that once again iran has lashed out at gulf arab states hitting key infrastructure. they've hit the prince sultan air base in saudi arabia causing a significant number of injuries. more than 15 us servicemen reportedly injured alongside critical damage to us jets. uh and then they they've also hit those aluminium smelters, key ones in the region as well, which is why you're seeing this big uptick in aluminium prices. and then just to add to that, another front has also opened up saturday. the houthis have entered into the arena. they have started attacking israel directly. a couple of attempts on saturday morning, and they say that they're not going to let up unless those joint usisrael military operations, not just against iran, but against iranian proxies around the region stop. so we have a confluence of factors taking place now all suggesting that we're going to see amplification and once more intensification of military operations in coming days. >> jama appreciate the update. that's bloomberg jama baseti in dubai. well, let's turn now to broader markets and government bonds rising around the world as that middle east conflict raises concerns that it'll derail global economic growth and revive demand for government debt. us treasuries have advanced with australian and japanese bonds in the asian trade also higher on speculation that surging oil prices may just be a harbinger of a protracted global fuel shortage. joining us now for more is thanos papa savas, founder and cio of abp invest. good to see you thanos. >> so you see the possibility, if i'm right, of a mild us recession at only 20%. just walk us through that because you've got the likes of jp morgan and pimco saying that the bond market is underestimating the chance of a slowdown. where would you need to see oil getting to and staying >> to see that recession? >> i think there are some key reasons why we see that uh probability relatively low at 20%. although we do see a slowdown a probability of 30%. so 30% slowdown 20% recession 0% hard recession and 50% continuing recovery expansion. and the reason for that is is a number of factors. number one is that the us economy has been very resilient. it has surprised broader analysts and investor in terms of the resilience even during the us shutdown last last year. that's number one. number two, we also believe that we're heading or approaching the beginning of the end of this escalation within the the the iran war. um and the debate internally is whether it's between 4 weeks and 12 weeks but we certainly see that ending um by q2 end of q2 of this year predominantly because of the midterms coming up the issue of affordability the price of oil and and for that reason we do maintain a positive outlook in terms of the uh the fixed income market we've been positive on the treasuries and only last week we turned positive in the uk two years >> it's interesting because that sort of game theory logic has been the popular idea in markets so far but as jamano was just saying, you've got the houthi rebels entering the conflict now, thousands of us troops on the ground. are we not at a turning point where markets start to think that this could be a longer, wider war? >> well, we've had four middle east events, crises over the last few years. the first one, october 23, october 24, june 25 last year, and the latest one. the first three were quite sanguin. in fact, during june 25 last year, during the 12-day war, we sent positive. korean equities, turkish equities, central eastern europe. this time, we felt it was different because the regime, the iranian regime felt threatened directly. the reason why we believe we're approaching gradually towards the end of that is simply because of the pressure points which we think that president trump will be feeling with the price of oil if it escalates further from you know we saw have 118 wti crude or potentially body banks if we go down that route. >> so if we would see more fatalities on the us side you mean you mean thanos by that? um interesting then you as as he says we speak to lots of people who just like you are thinking this won't take this won't go on so long because of the midterms because of that real politics taking place in the us but before this war even started we heard voices saying this war won't start because of the midterms because he won't want to risk higher oil prices into the midterms i mean what is the are you becoming more convinced of that view or less convinced how is your thinking progressing >> the the the the thinking has not changed so much recently. um it's just a matter of the pressure point of oil. so if the price of oil does not escalate higher then this can continue. um the the the point is what impact will the price of oil have on inflation on the sort of the direct k economy which we believe is going to be uh directly impactful and harmful. let me ask you about bond markets then because you've you mentioned a couple of ways that you've been uh changing your view recently upgrading for example the uk 2year um and there has been this talk for a couple of weeks now. are we underestimating the growth risk? you don't see a recession in the states but maybe you see more of a slowdown than you did. and is that enough of a reason for markets to start questioning the selloff we've seen in bonds more globally? >> i i i agree so i think so too. i i believe that and and it's not just in terms of the impact of the economy. it's also that in terms of a broader safe haven. if we see a significant riskoff event taking the s&p and risk assets down significantly, where is that capital going to go? whereas post the gfc, we we had the zero interest rate environment. we had private equity, private credits, alternatives. now, some of those asset classes do have a slightly negative feel to them. so we believe that treasuries will be the the the sort of the balancing the diversifier in a riskoff environment. >> okay. and just today, you know, we've got stocks selling off in asia, set to sell off in europe. they're only a touch higher here in well over in the us. what would president trump need to say to stop the s&p going into a correction? if he were to come out and say this um ground offensive is going to be limited and short, would that be encouraging because it kind of confirms that there'd be a ground offensive or would that help the market? >> i think that's that's that's right on what you're saying. i believe that in my view it needs to be a little bit more than just a sound bite in terms of impacting the market because as you as as you're alluding to you're saying we are moving to a second stage of this. so it needs to be a little bit more than just a sound bite to an interview. um something slightly more constructive and for example saying that of the 15 points they do agree in some of them which are the points. um h how do we see that communication and that negotiation actually taking place from both sides? i think that would potentially drive the shift. >> th how should we think about the data points that we're going to hear more on this week? we're going to get inflation out of the euro zone. that that should actually reflect some of the impact of iran, just the very early impact, but it is a number for for the month of march. um, so we'll be looking for for euro zone inflation. we'll also get us jobs data and i'm not sure what impact that kind of data set will have in a market like this. >> yeah, i don't think the jobs data will necessarily be reflective of the current situation and both continuation continuation claims, initial claims have always been constructive. the unemployment rate has not really raised any red flags. um, i think it will be more about inflation. it'll be more about inflation in europe. we've already heard from ecb's lagard saying that we're unlike covid, which they totally missed. they're not going to allow this to be a policy mistake again. so, they'll be on the front foot. now, the big debate is going to be in terms of pal marsh wh, will wash be more hawkish if the inflationary data coming through the us are slightly higher than expected? and that's going to be the big the big debate over the next couple of months. >> well, yeah. do you think that the reaction function changes with kevin walsh at the top? i i do, but i believe that he i believe that he's an inflation hawk. people believe he's a dove. generally, he's a dove because he believes that there are some transformational uh issues within ai which will bring the broader prices down. and if he's right, then it's worth cutting interest rates. but if inflation is high, i think he's going to be a hawk. >> so, president trump shouldn't assume that he gets lower rates. >> that's exactly right. >> but and and some of that might come down to the ai story that you think is actually well that might be part of the reason why the us economy remains resilient. correct. >> yeah. >> and and and also why we're also going to be looking at the employment levels within the information sector which could adversely impact the upper leg of the k economy. >> just finally quickly, gold. we're nearing bare market territory. is it a buying opportunity? >> we have not turned positive gold yet. and i think there's two reasons for that. um we believe that there's just an element of profit taking. so asset classes which have done very well have really seen a profit taken to them. one of our clients basically said, "yeah, that's a lazy solution. that's a lazy reason. and the real reason which i think is is is right is that gold tend to be as a slightly longer duration asset and right now we're focusing on short duration assets. >> i was also reading some talking about where where maybe central bankers emerging markets central bankers maybe have to sell gold depending on what's happening to their currencies. >> we did that >> right? okay. so that's certainly worth something we'll watch and we'll talk more about emerging markets shortly on the program. thanos, thank you very much. thanos papas, uh founder and cio of abp invest. coming up on the program is worse now over for emerging market assets. we will talk to elena uh theodora copalu, emerging market debt portfolio manager at manual life investment management. really interesting em dimension on that broader uh debt market story, bond market story that we've been discussing. i'll be moving from inflation to growth concerns. we'll talk about that with her. in the meantime, let's have a quick check on where we are on futures then. lizzy, european futures pointing lower still, not perhaps by as much as they were. no, but we are positive now state side. s&p e mines and nasdaq futures both up 210 of a percent. plenty more to come. this is bloomberg. welcome back. this is the opening trade monday the 30th of march. let's have a look at the futures picture then and european equity market futures looking to factor in some of the negativity that we saw states side later in the day on friday. so that is still relevant. we add into that the signs of escalation that we've seen then in the middle east over the weekend and all of that adds up to a sort of negative sentiment picture and certainly lizzie we see oil prices going higher. uh but i i i know you're about to go through what's going on on bond markets and i just wonder whether slightly lower yields could be a positive for global stocks. >> well indeed we are we are seeing lower yields both in the us and now at the start of the european bond session across the curve across the continent as we see investors pivoting from concerns around inflation perhaps more to growth. so that on both sides of the atlantic. >> yes. and our colleague adam linton who we'll talk to later saying that european natural gas futures have opened higher but they're not bolstering hawish ecb bets which marks a change from what we've seen earlier on in this conflict. so that's certainly something uh we keep in mind. taking a step back, let's talk about emerging market assets and where we've been on that story. so em assets have been under pressure from the war in iran with em stocks down about 10% this month. local currency bond yields are at a 2-year high and some currencies have fallen more than 5%. but just as the conversation in wider bond markets has turned to concerns about economic growth, some investors are now seeing opportunities in em debt alongside that story. so joining us now is elina theodora capulu who is emerging markets debt portfolio manager at manul life investment management and joins us now. elina, nice to have your perspective. so taking a step back, we have seen a lot of pressure on em debt as a result of um oil dynamics, fx dynamics, inflation concerns then for emerging markets. where are we now? take stock for us. what does the emerging market debt story look like to you? >> well, good morning everyone and good evening, good afternoon to our asian colleagues and peers. uh as you said as you rightly pointed out uh anna it's h quite a few things happening and it is something that has been quite troubling for esk and em is quite inclusive of the sentiment that has been carrying forward don't forget we're just starting the last week of the first quarter and march itself has been quite troubling for very obvious reasons we are all quite versed in geography and we do know that uh physical pipelines can get us that far so naturally with a disrup ruption that we have been seeing from the geopolitical developments. there have been some uh some places in the world that have been feeling more the adverse impact of what's been happening. you mentioned uh downgrades, growth downgrades and it worth highlighting what we've heard last week from the oecd that there's a high level of uncertainty around the duration the magnitude of the current conflict in middle east and that means that growth outlook is subject to significant downside risk that could result in lower growth and naturally higher inflation. so again, em is not immune to what's been happening now, but again, it's been more resilient relative to what we have been witnessing previous episodes for sure. yes. so let me ask you about that resilience, elena, because even though we've had a tough march for various em assets, a number of people have been pointing out that the fiscal picture for emerging markets, certain governments in in the emerging market space looked a lot better coming into this war, into this crisis than it did in previous testing episodes. a lot of self-help measures have been taken. a a lot of house cleaning if you like when it comes to to debt levels. is that a story that you think emerging markets are now benefiting from then? >> absolutely. it's not just a story. it's the reality of the em and that ties to exactly the point that traditionally what you would look into em is the ability to prevent any sort of capital flight in times of geopolitical tension as we're navigating at the moment and policy normalization. what we have been seeing since the end of february with the geopolitical uh developments is combination of the two. you have been seeing the repricing of the front end and in terms of hikes in dm but also it's a natural byproduct that you have been seeing that also in em tying back to the things that we have been discussing about the evolution relative to the previous cycles one another key point is to make that when you compare where we were for example 2024 with many central banks with many of the authorities h depleting effective efx reserves these days what you have been seeing the exact opposite. we have been seeing replenishing of fx reserves which is effectively a rainy fund and which is effectively what we have at our disposal in times of stress of distress and this is what we have been seeing now put forward in order to be at a better state. so alina, is now the time to buy em credit and local bonds or is it better to kind of wait till some of the some more of this volatility has passed? hi lizzy. and it's actually always the time to buy em as as long as you know where to invest, as long as you do your homework and as long as you know what is the state of the business cycle across the different aspects of em. don't forget em is not a monolith. is not just one facet of what you're seeing. so naturally with what we have been navigating what you're seeing is leaders and lagards you have been seeing economies that they are more tied to the upside of what's been happening and equally economies that they are tied more into the the shock the negative shock through their terms of trade impact. so what i would say is as long as you know where you're investing and what is the risk that you're getting and especially em has been an asset class that has been quite underrown and undervalued then yes certainly there are pockets that you should explore. >> but how much of the em debt story right now is about fed policy? how much of it is about you know the sell america trade the desire to diversify away from us assets? well, no one can shy away from what is happening in us. no one can shy away from what is happening in fed. whether you're talking about dm rates, whether you're talking about em rates, whether you're talking about sovereign corporates, local currency exposure, but what we have been seeing certainly is uh tailwinds, positive tailwinds especially manifested for example in in the asia part of the world through the ai, artificial intelligence that has been helping a lot and has been offering some buffer on what is happening at the moment. but going back to your point, there is an interlinkage but certainly there have been discussions about what is the states of uh the us economy and certainly it has been proven more resilient than expected and in em equally we have economies that have been proven extremely resilient and extremely strong. so yeah to your point it is an interlinkage but there are also a lot of idiosyncratic stories that it playing in the end. m and let me ask you about some of the more negative uh areas of the em space. you've talked about the resilience and you've talked about how there are always reasons to buy if you're selective. where are the areas you want to avoid? those with more exposure, i imagine, to the higher energy costs and the strength of the dollar and the weakness of their own currencies. so, where would that put the spotlight? >> you're absolutely right. the economies that at the moment have been have to bear the greater impact the higher cost from energy imports. even when you think into the economies and the countries that they are commodity exporters, energy exporters at the moment we're navigating a very particular uh event where it's impacting not just the pricing but also the quantity and the ability to export no matter the demand out there. so it it just changes the paradigm. but again, when you're thinking about sensitivity, you would be regionally put it more inclined to be more wear in the places of the mina region and perhaps into the asia region where you have energy importers. >> well, let's come back to this point of whether it's time to buy the dip now or if there'll be more outflows. ina, how much worse does it get for em if this becomes a longer war and the dollar story just keeps on continuing to get stronger? >> well, by the way stated the question is exactly what you were referring to. if we get into prolonged even intensification of the of the developments that started at the back of uh end of february, you would have been seeing uh risk coming under pressure no matter what which facet of of risk you're thinking. and yes, you're absolutely right. and we had some outflows registered over the past few weeks. again, it's coming at a very strong at the back of a very strong beginning of the year at a very strong last year and naturally if we're turning into a more risk adverse world, em is not going to be in noon. that's that's a fact. >> okay, elina, thank you for your insights this morning. that's alina theodora capulu, emerging markets debt portfolio manager at manual life investment management. well, pivoting to the corporate world now. the chief executive of hsbc says he's ramping up the integration of generative ai into the lender's operations. in an exclusive conversation for leaders with francine lacquire, the podcast, george elder talked about the technologies impact on productivity. we now rolled to 170,000 of our colleagues internal productivity tools that can materially improve their capabilities of reading documents, reading emails, writing documents, emails, quering, challenging process, 170,000 of our employees, i mean soon soon all the way to the 200 >> plus thousand employees. but for the moment that's in the rollout phase, we've already reached 170,000. of course, i will be monitoring usage. i'll be monitoring super usage. those will be the most um you know kind of influencing among their colleagues to drive the utilization. but utilization is not optional because that's how people remain very relevant in the future workforce 5 years down the road. but we're using gen ai in in wealth. we're using genai in markets. we're using genai in contact centers. we're using uh genai of course in technology. now 30,000 of our technologist engineers are enabled with genai. the speed at which we're able to patch for say uh code weaknesses or uh kind of vulnerabilities is 10 times faster already now with coding assistance than it was the case last year. >> 10 times. and we're not talking >> in 12 months. >> in 12 months. we're not talking we're not talking some productivity in five years. we're talking productivity already here. we're already 10 times faster at able at identifying and and patching some of these vulnerabilities in our code. this is like this is hugely transformational. so you can imagine how important it is. >> now i go back to the first part of your question francine is what are the skills that are needed for for banks. i would say there's no one particular skill that's going to be critical but it is going to be the ability to learn because you can come in a bank coming from an engineering background from a technology background from an accounting background from a finance and economics background. you can even come into a bank somewhat from you know from a you know not kind of you know different field than directly related to banking. but once you're in the bank, your career, the customer's expectation are such that you're going to have to continuously learn. >> and if you think you know it all, then there's no place uh for the for those you know in in a in an evolving landscape. it's very important to continuously be ready to learn and put in the hours and the effort to learn something new, a new skill and additional skill. today the most important learning capability is how to best embrace gen ai and innovation in general. >> that was the hsbc ceo george elhedery speaking on the new episode of leaders with francine lacwell, the podcast which is available to download now. >> well, coming up, we'll check in on european oil and gas majors with brent topping $110 as the iran conflict continues to escalate. more on your stocks to watch at the european open next. this is bloomberg. i think what the fed's dealing with right now is the triple whammy of deportations, tariffs, and now the war. and so that just adds to the uncertainty the economy was already facing. you know, it's amazing. the us economy has been very resilient, but it's showing real signs of fragility right now. and so the fed's very worried. >> how was the former philadelphia fed president patrick harker speaking to bloomberg on the sidelines of the city hong kong macro conference with his views on the vulnerabilities for the global and us economy. let's turn to the markets now in three minutes. in on the opening trade, we're joined by adam linton from our markets live team. um good morning to you, adam. monday morning then and we sit here right now looking at us futures, stock futures that look actually a little positive. european futures negative but improving. they've improved a little bit. um do you see reason for that bounce? is the fact that we're seeing lower bond yields likely to be one of the reasons why we could see a bounce? yeah, i think lower bon yields could potentially be placing a bit of a role, but in terms of like how this week is shaping up. it was always set to be a case of we have this deadline for us iran talks next monday. so what is the tenor of news flow that fills that gap? and if you look over the weekend, we're still seeing iran and israel exchanging missile fires. we've seen the houth rebels enter the war now, which is particularly dangerous for, you know, potentially those saudi oil exports. you know, bloomberg intelligence says that if they're vulnerable, that could add 15 to $20 per barrel to brent. and then yeah, we're also seeing the additional troop build up by the us. so the ten of news flow is relatively negative and yes, we are looking to see how these us iran talks develop, but ultimately the negotiating positions are pretty far apart. i know i've seen trump tried to interject today to say they're going relatively well, but i don't think the market's really kind of buying that at this stage. so all we kind of really seeing today is, you know, us stocks are higher, but that's pretty much what we've seen throughout the conflict. every monday s&p 500 has closed higher only for it to, you know, close lower at the end of the week. and i don't expect this week to be any different. >> but to anna's point, yields down both here in europe and in the us. so it seems like higher energy prices aren't boosting ecb hiking bets anymore. are we at peak hawkishness when it comes to the central bank? >> i think it definitely is positive. i think we saw some this price action start on friday with the us. we saw that kind of twist steepening move in the curve whereby you know front end yields started falling. i think for the fed obviously slightly different. they have a dual mandate. they're probably more cognizant of the negative growth implications via the labor market. but like you said, yes, we are seeing european bonds follow suit now. and we saw gas prices, you know, open higher today, but not translate into higher energy uh sorry, higher rate hike bets. and so i think we are seeing a bit of a breakdown in this mechanical higher energy equals higher inflation equals more ecb bets. and some of that has been aided by the ecb themselves. we saw villoy you know urgent patients schnarble who's one of the more hawkish members she's definitely taken a more measured approach so i think it's definitely something we are seeing signs of i think for the you know we will see a bit more data capture this week we've got the ism data we've got march payrolls so you know if those come in soft and i think we could see an increase this trend whereby you know front end yields are dragged lower i think for europe though the back end is still maybe a little bit more vulnerable i think you know we've seen signs of that you know we're kind of higher since territory again for the uk a i think as you know european balance sheets are squeezed having to take supportive measures this could impact the back end of the european curve as well. >> okay. um and and let me ask about yen intervention because in the midst of all of this uh we seem to have got some commentary from the bank of japan that feels a bit like intervention. remind us where we've got to on the boj story then adam. >> yeah so you know obviously with this verbal intervention you know they're trying to it does feel like pushing against the string a little bit to some extent because this isn't a speculative move. this is a fundamental driven move given the terms of trade shock from higher energy prices and ultimately real rates are still relative, you know, very negative in japan. so even if you do get boj hikes, you know, it's still going to be a difficult position for the yen. if you do see any yen rallies, they'll probably be relatively shortlived. >> adam, thank you very much. that's adam linton from bloomberg's markets live team. and remember, you can get up-to-date analysis and insight from adam and the rest of the team by going to mlivgo on your terminal. now let's turn to our stocks to watch this morning with abir abu omar. abir, >> good morning lizzy. the first thing we're looking at this morning with 9 minutes for the market to open in europe is oil majors. now oil has surged 90% since the start of the conflict in the middle east. and you definitely see that reflecting into the prices of oil majors in europe like bp, shell, tatal, those are surging for the past month. 22% 13% 16% and 42% 43% almost. now this uh brent uh prices have also uh gained uh this morning around $115 a barrel after the escalations that we've seen over the weekend with the houthis getting uh directly involved. we flip the board and we see how energy is performing compared with the wider stock 600 and is doing quite well outperforming other stocks. now we turn we flip the board to aluminum or aluminium here in london. and asia aluminum has done quite well this morning and this is on the back of a 6% surge in aluminum prices this morning after iran attacked facilities both in the united arab emirates and bahin. so we saw the asia session here. asia uh aluminum stocks did pretty well. we turn our attention to europe at the open and we look at norse hydro for example which has yearto date done quite well nearly 20% up and if you plug that against aluminum prices you'll see that they're quite in tandem. and then finally uh a stock that is not very relevant to what is happening in the middle east and that is telecom italia. now we keep a look at telecom italia but also inwit uh and you see the year-to- date performance this morning. one is doing well, one is not doing so well. now telecom italia has terminated a $2 billion deal with inwet. that was news that was reported last week, a cost cutting or a cost optimization uh process for uh telecom italia. so we take a look at both these stocks at the open this morning and how they're going to fare. anna, back to you. >> abia, thank you very much. spoonberg's abia abu omar ab was talking there about oil prices and interesting to add into the mix then lizzie that we've got sock genen out with a new outlook for oil and saying that there is a quote growing likelihood that brent will top $150 on the iran war. that is not obviously being reflected this morning. we are up 2 and a half% but 115 is where we trade on the brent price. uh brent oil may average $125 a barrel in april on the middle east war. this according to sockgen as well and they're saying this because they say that the oil market faces quote huge draws in inventory shutins uh and so this is adjusting the sock gen view and really it comes on a a a succession of houses upgrading their views. >> yeah, mcquary just last week saying the oil futures could hit $200 a barrel if the conflict drags on till june and the straight of hormone stays short. >> yeah, a bit of a reality check for europe perhaps as we discuss asia very much facing up to this already and what will this mean for europe and for rationing of any product. meanwhile, you're watching software stocks. >> i am. you could see more downside for european software. it tumbled on friday. cyber security focus in particular. uh you got the sap, sorry, excuse me, sap at 52- week lows here in europe. so, keep an eye for more of that today. >> yeah, we're also watching boohoo in the retail space, the clothing retailer uh delivering its adjusted ebda numbers, raising its 2027 guidance. so, that upgrade to guidance could push the stock a little higher at the start of trade. we will be back with the market open. the futures picture has actually been pretty volatile for europe. us futures now pointing uh more uh decidedly positive up 310en of 1% on e- minis and european futures pairing their losses. the opening trade is coming up next. this is bloomberg. welcome back everybody. a few minutes then until the start of another trading week here for european cash equities. let's cast our minds back to friday because it is some way instructive to see that the profile of the us trading day on friday and how it continued to deteriorate into the afternoon because it is that weakness that a couple of hours ago we were really expecting to pick up on at the start of the european trading day. we will get some of that, but that is certainly the the negative input, one of them. uh, and then add to that over the weekend, signs of further escalation in the war in the middle east, the houthies entering the conflict, the arrival of more us troops, uh, the attack on certain bases over in saudi arabia and us personnel being injured in the process. all of that adding up to something a bit negative. so, what does the futures picture look like then for europe? well, we do have a negative uh slant to futures, but us futures have actually started to pick up into positive territory. and the footsie 100 isn't far from positive territory right now. so, a little bit of negativity coming through here, uh, lizzy. but, we've seen this being paired a little bit and i just wonder whether the fact we've got slightly lower bond yields this morning, whether that is something that maybe uh reduces the panic stations when it comes to european reaction functions. >> well, in terms of some of the stocks to watch this morning, anna, we can start with the impact of the middle east war. we had of course tan over the weekend striking aluminium producers in bahrain and the uae. so we watched aluminium stocks here in europe uh because we've seen futures on the lme surging nearly 6% the most since 2024 this morning after those attacks. so keep an eye on the likes of norse hydro and grangers as well as other miners involved in the metal like south 32. also keep in mind european software stocks after that space tumbled on friday. a particular focus on cyber security and then boohoo in your retail space. they had out results out this morning exceeding guidance uh when it came to ebit dart. so keep an eye on that as well. anna, >> yeah, a bit of a stock specific news there to focus in on, but the broader picture then lizzy is perhaps a negative one for european stocks then this morning with those inputs of escalation and the negativity around us stocks on friday, all of that setting us up for something a little bit weaker. is that going to be cushioned by the fact we see those lower bond yields and the bond narrative pivoting from one where we're concerned uh almost exclusively about inflation to one where we're concerned also about growth that means slightly lower yields and does that change things for the banking sector perhaps here in europe. so we wonder how the banking sector is going to perform with that in mind. european equity markets then are open and either side of the flatline then the footsie 100 just into positive territory up a tenth of a percent or or so. the stock 600 more broadly down by two ten of 1%. the ibex down by that kind of amount. the karant down by that kind of margin as well. so uh broadly a little bit of negativity still coming through as we watch those signs of escalation in the middle east and and a higher oil price as a result. lizzie, >> well let's turn to the breakdown sectorally. you have just under half of sectors in positive territory this morning. basic resources leading the gains up 9/10en of a percent. energy not far behind up 3/10en of a percent. but bottom of the basket, as you flagged, anna, banks today down 8/10en of 8% perhaps connected to those yield moves that we have been seeing yields lower as concerns pivot from inflation to growth off the back of this conflict. we'd flagged that we should be watching the aluminium uh stocks this morning. graanges is down 6/10en of a percent waiting for norse hydro to open. um but in terms of the energy space, the likes of total, bp, and shell all in the green at the moment. just looking at some of the other miners uh this morning, bhp negative, anglo-american negative, but rio tinto with that big aluminium connection up more than 3% as things stand. just some of those other stocks to watch that we had been flagging. um buhoo up 5 and a quarter% right now. telecom, italia down a quarter of a percent. and in your software space, sap indeed up 7/10en of a percent after the uh drop in european software over on friday. >> yeah, it's interesting the banking sector, isn't it? because uh the fact we saw those higher yields coming through in recent weeks didn't support banks necessarily because a lot of people said it was the it was the wrong kind of inflation and that wasn't going to be positive for the banking sector and now we see those yields weaker and that's not great for the banking sector either it would seem. and so that is the worst performing sector. uh this morning you mentioned basic resources. that is where we see the positivity and so that speaks to the strength of london, doesn't it? the brent price, interestingly enough, is actually a little stronger than it was just half an hour ago. so up by three and a half% on brent, up over $116 a barrel again. and that is positive, of course, for some of the oil majors and north hydro with aluminium aluminum prices in mind up by 4% this morning. so it is uh some of the basic resource and energy stocks that we see going higher. let's talk to richard salana who's global equity portfolio manager at aviva investors and joins us on set this morning. richard, nice to have you with us. so, another monday where we're taking stock at the weekend, working out whether we've seen to what extent we've seen escalation over the weekend. oil prices are firmly higher this morning. how does the world look that the equities are your focus? so, what does the equity market universe look like to you this monday? >> yeah, it's interesting. i mean we we had what feels like a number of manic mondays so far but actually the initial sort of market reaction as you said actually feels actually reasonably calm given what we've seen over the weekend as you said signs of further escalation houthis now entering the conflict us troops mobilizing as you highlighted look i i think from our perspective just taking a step back it feels like we are entering another phase now particularly now we're four weeks into this conflict no clear sign of of an end inside and actually what does even an endgame look like at this point so look i think obviously from the starting point where markets were pricing in a relatively short-term conflict in the you know talking weeks here. i think now there is potential for this to extend for months now and the market is having to reflect on that. so i think as we start to enter that new phase for equity markets this starts to shift in our mind from what we've seen so far which has actually been you could argue a relatively ordered more of a degrossing from an equity allocation perspective to more of a d-risking. >> yes. tell me a bit more about that because degracing then so reducing the size of positions rather than necessarily reducing the risk profile on those positions. so what does it look like to go from degraing to de-risisking? what should we expect to see more of? >> yeah, absolutely. so if you think about the deg really really what we've seen so far, that's been more about selling the recent winners and buying some of the recent losers. right. so if you think actually the recent winners actually coming into this conflict were actually sectors, you know, you know, sectors such as the consumer staples, healthcare, utilities, etc. more of those kind of call it you know old economy stocks. we saw that halo trade in in february worked quite well when everyone was fearful about you know ai disruption and actually some of the software names benefited in this degrossing phase that we saw you know so far as we start to shift more from the degrossing to the de-risking in our mind that becomes more of a beta trade right so you start to think about those more traditionally defensive sectors i.e staples i.e a healthcare that actually didn't perform quite so well or not quite as defensive in the degree we think start to become more defensive and resilient in the de-risisking phase and then on the flip side it's going to be those more cyclical sectors you've highlighted the bank so far this morning clearly struggling somewhat and those you know call it more discretionary sectors consumer discretionary sectors industrial names again you think about the kind of raw material costs as well there so again we think that's probably what the playbook looks more like in a de-risking phase as opposed to de degrossing >> how useful is the 2022 playbook evidently the economic backdrops are completely different but is there anything that you would copy and paste from then that is useful now >> look look every single phase is different right and i think you're right i think 2022 that window is instructive somewhat i think as you highlighted some clear differences there particularly when you think about the starting point where central banks were back in 2022 where rates arguably were were pretty low levels right and then you think about where inflation was in 2022 actually at sort of relatively elevated levels compared to where we are now. so you could argue rates in a more kind of neutral perspective right now inflation actually more relatively under control compared to where we were in 2022. but look there's no doubt about it a prolonged energy shock i.e. all prices above $100 for an extended period of time i.e. months. 2022 does offer some insight. i think again when you think about some of those sectors, some of those more traditionally defensive sectors, whether it be utilities, telecoms, consumer staples, healthcare, etc. that perform well obviously as well as energy stocks that we have seen so far have performed well and as i said those more discretionary sectors struggling somewhat. so i think 2022 investors should should have that somewhat in their mind but as you highlighted some clear differences in terms of the economic background >> and would you have expected the footsie 100 to outperform the stock 600 more given the exposure to energy or have you been surprised by how aligned they've been since the start of the conflict? >> look somewhat i think when you think about the composition particularly of the footsie 100 you think about the big energy stocks whether it be bp shell you also think about actually some of the more traditionally defensive sectors i.e. some of those big you know healthcare names whether it be the likes of astroenica consumer staples names but i think it's been more as i said that degrossing phase where actually some of those sectors that are big heavyweights in the footsie have not actually proved so defensive now we do think if we're shifting to a period of of months for this that actually starts to play more better but also we have to factor in somewhat the uk also in a position of weakness clearly if this is a prolonged you know conflict and when that feeds through into an inflation and obviously energy prices and the energy dependency of the uk clearly also comes under pressure somewhat as yeah, and maybe that shows up more in the 250 then than the 100 being more a reflection of the of the uk economy. thinking of 2022 and the extent to which that is a useful uh benchmark to look back at, we talked a lot then about pricing power and actually stocks didn't do as bad as people thought they could do because of the amount of pricing power they have. now the inflation backdrop maybe is a little different this time around. is that is that instructive? is that something we need to think about? >> no, i think you're absolutely right. think about it in that pricing power terms. and to be fair in 2022, particularly as we thought about coming out of those co you know supply shocks actually companies were in a pretty good place when it came to pricing power. so if you think about obviously the inflation impact was was large when you think about it from a raw material input cost perspective but actually companies in 2022 were able to pass those on. so actually what you saw if you think about european equities in 2022 from an earnings standpoint actually didn't really budge. it was more of the derating that you saw was the valuations that took the hit. but that a lot of that was the ability to pass through those those those pricing pressures. now i think here there may may be signs where there might be a little bit more challenge when you think about where the consumer is right now and the squeeze a consumer is likely to face from those higher energy costs but i think at the same time there will be sectors where we still think that pricing power that ability to absorb some of those inflationary impacts is still there. >> what do we need to hear from us president donald trump to calm the equity market at this point? genuinely if he were to say and and we were discussing this earlier. if he were to say there will be a ground offensive but it'll be limited and it'll be short, would that support the equity market? >> look, i i think a ground offensive i think it in in my mind wouldn't be taken particularly well by the market so far. i mean, i think look, the reality is we've heard lots of obviously, you know, noises coming out the us administration. we've heard, you know, obviously kind of, you know, noises on the other side from iran. i think really what the market needs to see other than obviously the signs that there are talks taking place right now it's really going to come down is when is that straight of hall moves going to reopen again because again that is really what is the choke point right now when you think about it from an energy price perspective but also from a global economy perspective so talks are well and good noises are well and good statements are great but ultimately we want to see a sign of of that straight reopening again and i think ultimately that is what is what the equity market is going to need to see and it's interesting actually we've seen obviously last week on monday we had that statement we saw obviously markets, you know, pushed significantly higher. all prices came down. i think that reactionary function to that is somewhat diminishing some, you know, i would suggest cuz really what markets want to see are those channels reopening again, allowing that flow of oil to come through and that ultimately will ease those pressures that we're seeing right now. >> in the meantime, richard, if we're not seeing that just yet, what does it mean that the bond market story seems to be pivoting a little bit from focused on focus on inflation and higher yields to a focus on growth? and you know we don't want to draw too many conclusions about just one day but today we are seeing slightly weaker yields as if markets are now focused a bit more on the growth impact of this. what will that mean for stocks? >> yes. so look i i think you're absolutely right. look we've seen some significant moves in rates markets. right. we've gone from pricing you know cuts here in europe and particularly in the uk to pricing in hikes now as people go central banks need to kind of fight this inflationary fire as it were. now i think as you said we're shifting more from more from it being an inflationary shock to also people thinking about the growth dynamic and i think ultimately for equity markets we've seen that doesn't tend to be particularly constructive where we think about if people are starting to you know worry more about the growth aspect as we've seen in in prior periods look equities can absorb $100 oil if it's a short-term impact but once you start getting into month-long impacts of $100 oil we've seen equity markets do tend to struggle somewhat in that. so again, for central banks right now, all eyes are going to be obviously they're walking the tight rope somewhat in trying to manage what could be a transitory impact to what actually could end up being quite a shock to growth. >> richard, good to see you. richard sana there, global equity portfolio manager at aviva investors. thank you. >> well, let's check in on the core six now, shall we? how are they fairing this morning against this backdrop? we have lbmh and nestle gaining, but the rest are in the red. particular losses for schneider electric this morning. many anna had been saying that this could be a time to get into consumer staples at this point in the conflict and nestle indeed outperforming at 4/10en of 8%. let's now check on some of the individual stocks on the move with bloomberg's abir abu a. good morning, lizzy. we are turning towards oil majors. like i mentioned in the previous segment, oil prices are now or brent prices are now close to $116 a barrel, gaining slightly over the past few minutes. and that has led to and the weekend's events as well have led to a surge uh and a gain in the oil majors here in europe as much as 2.2% in the case of ecuador and this is on the back of the houthis getting involved over the weekend directly for the first time since this conflict in the middle east has started but also president trump or the wall street journal reporting that president trump is considering troops on the ground in uh iran or in the middle east. this has led to a surge in brent. uh we move on to aluminum and aluminum prices surged as much as 6% this morning be before pairing some gains but that has led to a gain in the asia aluminum session. but also we're seeing that reflected in europe with the likes of norex hydro up uh over 6.4% 4% nearly 6.5% uh this morning and this is after iran attacked facilities both in bahrain and the united arab emirates with significant damage to those. we turn to a different story and that is boohoo which is also doing quite well this morning nearly gaining 7% and this is on the back of some favorable results that were reported. investors are looking favorably at that news and this is uh doing well in the space of fashion and then we turn to inuit uh which we spoke about earlier as well. inuit and um telecom italia are doing different things diverging this morning and this is after telecom italia said that it would terminate a deal with inwit valued at over $2 billion uh this morning cost cutting uh a process of cost cutting for telecom italia in not doing well on that news. telecom italia gaining progressively as the session moves on. and then finally the last talk we turn to we go back to those middle east stories and that is lufansa not doing very much now actually pairing some of those gains as i speak. uh and this is on the back of uh some strikes uh by the company which has cabin crew has agreed by large in favor of strikes. but just when it comes to airlines, this is a sector that was not doing very well at the start of the war and going into the end of this month as jet fuel prices, lizzie, really gain on the back of the closure of the street of hermuz, but also the wider tensions in uh the middle east. but this is what we're looking at. back to you. >> okay, abier, thank you very much. that's bloomberg's abu omar. >> let's talk about some of the uh broader broader uh uh take on the markets. i suppose a bit going through some of the detail there. lizzy, the stock 600 actually just into positive territory which remarks quite which which marks quite a rapid turnaround from a few hours ago when we got into the office. the futures picture for europe looked decidedly negative. no surprise given friday's session on wall street and all of the escalatory signs over the weekend and the higher oil price. but actually that higher oil price is acting as a bit of a support today and higher aluminum price is also a support. basic resources stocks the highest uh or the best performing sector as a result >> and the footsie 100 outperforming as well carrying europe really we're just flat to the upside but we are adding to gains for us futures as well s&p em up 3/10en of a percent and same for nasdaq futures as things stand well coming up oil prices gaining as we say as the iranbacked houthy militant group in yemen enters the war in the middle east we'll get more on that next is bloomberg welcome back to the opening trade. 18 minutes into today's session and the stock 600 is back in the red. stock sliding for a third day here in europe as we have higher oil prices. brent now trading at $115 a barrel up 2.8% off the back of the latest in the middle east. we'll get to that in a moment. but because of the higher oil prices, you are seeing outperformance here in london for the footsie 100 anna up a tenth of 8%. yeah, absolutely. so that's the upside for stocks. upside for oil evident this morning. 11581 is where we tried trade. that's on brent. oil gaining today as the iranbacked husi militant group in yemen enters the war in the middle east. the escalation comes as us troops arrive in the region with energy markets expecting further uh potential uh for chaos as the conflict continues to expand. for more let's bring in bloomberg's middle east energy market reporter anthony depala who is with us from dubai. and anthony, over the weekend then a lot of comment about the fact that the houthies have joined the conflict and this could have an outsiz impact i suppose. um not necessarily because of their military capabilities but just geographically where they are located and how this will continue to have an impact or maybe a stepped up impact on the flow of crude out of the region. >> good morning anna. yeah, that's correct. the houthis came in uh this weekend saying that they were uh entering the war launching a missile at israel. uh so there is a heightened risk there. but what we haven't seen yet is a real declaration from the houthis that they are going to uh act in terms of trying to block or interdict shipping in the red sea and as they've been doing uh up until the last few months launching missiles, drones, even some small vessel attacks on ships going through the babal mendde strait uh that runs uh south uh from the red sea. and that is important because that would be the >> when do you usually do it? >> oh, we seem to lose our connection to anthony. that's unfortunate. we were yeah, we were just in the context. we were just having a conversation there with anthony about oil prices, about the involvement of the houthies and what that will do. the east west pipeline of course seen as a way this is through saudi arabia seen as a way of cushioning the blow for the global economy from what's been going on in the persian gulf. but with the houthies entering the frey maybe that is not the case. um let us pivot from that to a conversation about what's going on. in fact it seems anthony is back with us. anthony i hope you can hear us. maybe we'll move the conversation on to what president trump has been telling the ft that he wants to take the oil in iran and commenting on car island. what what do we make of these latest comments? >> yeah. yeah. uh hi again. glad to be back. uh yeah, i i was also going to say that i i think that it's more uh the uncertainty around what's going to happen going forward that's moving oil prices today uh rather than than kind of those those comments from the houthis this weekend because as as you mentioned uh you know we hadn't seen that that comment from the houthis that they were going to really have an impact or or start attacking the oil flows out of the red sea. but i think what traders are are are talking about this morning is what's going to happen uh going forward this week with the us. will uh the us forces try to take car island? will they uh do some action uh perhaps around hormuz to try to open that? so traders are really watching the movements of us troops, watching of course the comments of of president donald trump, which seems to say both things and and everything. so it's it's difficult really to gauge from his comments what he's going to do. uh but you're watching uh what's happening with uh more troops coming in and kind of where the strategic nodes are being car for the iranian exports as well as around hormuz. so i think that's what traders are really kind of focusing on uh this week with with added risk of uh of additional intervention and that doubt as to how those peace talks are going on. so, we've got those two tracks going on at the same time and that's really what seems to be uh occupying the traders this morning. anna, >> anthony, thank you for the context. that's been antthony deal there out of dubai. well, as prices for oil skyrocket, worldwide growth forecasts are being slashed and critical fuel sources are paralyzing nations from pakistan to thailand. in south korea, the government's now weighing drastic driving restrictions to insulate its energy reserves from that escalating conflict in iran. for more, we're joined by merk's jill deis out of hong kong. jill, good morning. what's been the impact so far in asia as the gulf suppliers cut output? >> hey, good morning, lizzy. right. so, um, you know, there's the south korea measures that you just mentioned. so, this is something that seoul has already implemented for their public sector employees, basically scanning license plates to kind of prevent uh the number of times that you can access government buildings. they're actually considering expanding this to the private sector as well. that would be lizzie the first time that such driving restrictions would have be in place since the gulf war, so more than 30 years ago. so that kind of gives you an idea of how drastic things have really uh kind of become. uh but it's really not just south korea. you've also seen measures announced across um the rest of asia pacific today. australia, for example, the prime minister anthony albani uh came out and talked about implementing a tax cut uh for fuel um because they're trying to drive down petrol prices there. um that's the first time we've seen something like that since 2022. um when of course we saw russia's invasion of ukraine push up oil prices worldwide. so you do have some concerns there as well. um in 2022 those types of measures lasted for 6 months. so far we're looking at a three-month uh tax cut here. uh and then of course you've also got um you know just the measures that have been in place across the region over the past several weeks. so u in the philippines implementing some work from home restrictions for private sector or for public sector employees. uh so again just that kind of measurement there. you've got some increases to various um fairy t um ferry fairs and things like that in thailand. so again really really hitting the region pretty hard. >> yeah absolutely. and so you wonder how much europe is going to have to pay attention to what is happening in asia and uh and and think about at least the possibility of some of these measures. meanwhile then jill, what what signs are we getting about chinese cargos going through the straight of hormuz? because maybe that offers a little bit of relief. >> yeah. uh so this is interesting. um we actually were just um analyzing some vessel data looking at a couple of chinese tankers that appeared to have delivered uh more than 260 uh000 barrels of diesel to the philippines. so, as i mentioned, the philippines being uh one of those nations where you are seeing some of those austerity measures and in true in fact um you know, we haven't um heard uh full disclosure exactly on on these vessels or anything like that. but that does kind of track with this idea that china is um you know um offering some diesel to some of its neighbors um in kind of a bid to help ease some of the supply crunches because as we know um china is one of those the only nations that's really been able to get some uh vessels through the straight of hermuse at this time. but yeah, again does indicate to you um that when it comes to several places around asia pacific um you know they're they're they're dealing with these really big supply crunch uh crunches and it does seem like maybe there's at least some temporary relief there but as we all know i mean the longer this goes on um you know the more difficult it is to really kind of envision um what a lot of these supply crunches are going to look like long term. >> jill thank you very much jill dis there with the latest on how asia is responding to this current crisis. is meanwhile, you know, the likes of stockgen talking about $125 oil and beyond, it seems that higher oil prices are something that the markets are starting to take really seriously. >> yeah. what i'd like to know is these thousands of us troops, how many of them would it take to take car island? uh just going back to what anthony was saying, and and how many would it take to try and reopen the straight of hormuz? um these are two is it an either or situation? uh interesting to work out what those troops could be for. and we're going to talk about geopolitics next. no end in sight to the war as it enters its fifth week with strikes continuing across the middle east. perhaps we can get the answer to that question with lindsay newman, visiting research fellow from king's college london. she's coming on next. this is bloomberg. monday morning, 30 minutes into our session here in europe. and we had anticipated a negative session for european stocks. at the start of it, though, it looked a little more resilient. today, we are still flatlining essentially across european stocks, but we just dipping a little further into the red than we were just 15 minutes ago. the footsy 100, yes, that's still in positive territory, up by 210 of 1%. energy stocks, basic resource stocks. uh lizzy, we'll talk about that in a moment, no doubt. uh but that is one area of cushion, but elsewhere we do see some negativity in particular around the dax. that's down by 2/10en of 1%. in terms of the uh underlying dynamics then lizzie, what are you seeing? well, it's quite a reflection of the fact that it is easter week and and it's monday of easter week. volumes down 41% this morning, but a pretty fair balance between members higher and lower on the stock 600. more to the downside reflecting that slightly riskoff mood that you were seeing in the geographical breakdown. but let's take a look at some of the leaders and laggers this morning, shall we? because if we come back to the latest on the ground in the middle east war, we have seen uh strikes by tean on middle eastern plants for aluminium and therefore you're seeing norse hydro and rio tinto gaining as aluminium has surged as well. we're also seeing orstead higher more than 5% this morning. this after it was raised to buy at bank of america. but flipping over to the lagards as well, uh an individual story for delivery hero up, sorry, excuse me, down more than 6%. uh this after process is said to be mulling selling its 10% stake in the delivery company. we also have tui down 1.2%. easyjet falling as well as we have those higher oil prices weighing on the airlines this morning. let's h get up to date with some of the other news slow we're covering this morning then lizzie and the ecb governing council member froy says the central bank is prepared to act to reign in inflation expectations the bank of france governor told last stamper the iran war could inflict a negative supply shock incurring slower economic growth and faster increases in consumer prices though he added that betting on dates for potential interest rate hikes is premature. the uk chancellor rachel reeves will urge g7 partners to boost domestic energy supplies and warn the recent surge in oil and gas prices is playing into vladimir putin's hands. reeves will speak with finance and energy ministers and central bankers in an online call later today. we're told she'll ask for allies to ramp up investment in renewable energy and nuclear power to wean themselves off gas. and president trump says thran has given in given in to most of his administration's demands. but the nature of any direct negotiations remains quite via third parties. iran has rejected a 15-point proposal and disputed the us president's claims about negotiations. earlier on sunday, president trump talked of seizing iran's oil resources, a move that would mark a major escalation in the conflict. lizzy, let's get some analysis now on the latest in geopolitics. we're joined by lindseay newman, visiting research fellow over at king's college london. good morning to you, lindsay. thank you for making time for us this monday morning. we were discussing how the us has sent thousands more troops to the middle east over the weekend. do you genuinely believe that the us is gearing up for a ground attack or or is it just that the us is keeping its options open? >> thanks, lizzie, for having me. you know, i'm a big believer that when trump moves personnel, when he uh produces an exit executive order, when he tells you what he's about to do, he's probably going to do it. the movement of thousands more marine marine expeditionary units. uh we're now at 50,000 military forces in the region, which is about 10,000 more than generally are in the region for the us suggests that something is coming. now, what that is is the big question. but here here's what i want to tell you, lizzie. the big risk is that the status quo as it currently stands is not sustainable. despite trump saying that iran has given in to those 15 points in the plan, uh iran is continuing to wreck havoc on the region. we saw this over the weekend with targeted strikes on saudi arabia and kuwait. uh iran has learned through this conflict that even though there's asymmetries in might and capability in military power, that it can export the conflict not just to the region but but with knock-on effects on the global economy. so leaving iran as it currently stands means that iran would potentially have learned a lot of lessons in this conflict although quite degraded and would be a more volatile more potentially dangerous actor at least for the region if not the world. so there must be more coming uh in terms of how to reconcile this this tension. >> okay, we could come back to the diplomatic efforts what what there are of them. but lindsay, when we look at those troops heading there, already there in the region, i wonder what you think the most likely purpose for them will be, will it be occupying kar island, as trump said to the ft yesterday he wants to do? he wants to take the oil in iran, in his words, or do you think that they're more likely to be used to to reopen the straight of hormuz? >> well, we know that the administration is considering a range of options. there's always a spectrum of potential options that that they are going to be considering all the way from as you said restarting the diplomatic talks in earnest uh to uh declaring victory and just going home down the line to uh the most likely most costly uh option would be for troops to go into iran and look to actually seize that enriched uranium. there's thousands um of uh pounds in enriched uranium. they're believed to be at multiple sites across iran from natans uh and this would not be a sort of simple quick in-n-out operation like this type of uh military uh personnel have recently undertaken in venezuela. this is not a 38minute operation as we saw there. this is going to be a multi-day operation. so that would be incredibly costly, incredibly dangerous, and we know that iran is very well aware that this is something that the us administration is looking to potentially pursue. so the the most likely scenario here has to be something um along those along the lines from a blockade of car island to potentially uh efforts to to bomb and disrupt the the resources there to prevent further exports uh iran control over the exports from from car island. um but again the us has not ruled out going all the way down the line to seizing that enriched uranium and and the trump and trump has said for himself that is what he wants to do seizing that dust he calls it. uh lindsay, what can you tell us about the status of any talks that are taking place? i mean, clearly messages are getting through from one side to the other. uh but we know mostly about that via intermediaries, the exchange of the 15point plan from the us side and then iran pushing back with its own five-point plan. and it doesn't seem from the outside that there is much uh meeting of minds on that front. i mean iran talking about wanting reparations, about wanting deacto ownership, control of the straight of hormuz, which do do not seem things seem likely to be things that the us would go along with. um, what do you make of the the status of talks? >> yes, anna. so, we know over the weekend uh non non-combatant participants uh held talks um in pakistan. so uh saudi arabia, turkey, egypt met in pakistan with um to have conversations about mediation efforts, but those are of course indirect. uh we know as you have mentioned that last week the us has delivered this 15-point plan. iran has said we're not interested in that 15-point plan. here's our counterpoints. this is a bit like groundhog day. if you remember back to um just before the conflict started a month ago, the the two sides were in these indirect indirect conversations and even then they could not even agree about what they were willing to talk about. uh iran has consistently said that its missile program and its enrichment program is not on the table. well, this is exactly what the us has always said that it needs to have on the table. so the idea that these two sides are going to reach some sort of ceasefire or some sort of mediation uh without further pressure being applied on iran, it seems very very low likelihood. and this is why, you know, we're thinking that there is going to have to be some sort of further force and force posturing deployed um as as lizzie and i were discussing in order to sort of further ex extract pressure on iran to drive it back to the negotiation table because for right now iran feels as though it's quite emboldened. it feels as though it can make these demands because of what we're seeing in the straight of hormuse and because of the threats and risks to the red sea which people are incredibly worried worried about and i think rightfully rightfully so. we see during this conflict that supply chains and energy markets can be a strategy a target of war now. yes. yes. so we're seeing iran flex its muscles and use those levers of control that it has. uh meanwhile, lindsay, i wonder what you make of the extent to which we have seen regime change in iran or the extent to which we've not. i mean, we're just hearing from the tasnim news agency in iran this morning, uh saying that the irgc naval commander has been killed. that name then added to a list of iranian leaders who have been killed as a result of the israeli and us action here. to what extent have we seen regime change or not? is that still is that still uh pending? yeah, anna, we know over this weekend that president trump says that we've already seen regime change. actually, we've seen uh several regime change if if you follow what trump is saying. and what that what he's pointing to is a personnel point, but that is not a structural point. so, absolutely from the ayatollah on down, we have seen personnel personnel removals um that the us and israel in particular have targeted the the regime personnel. but the regime itself itself for all intents of purposes for all we know remains in control of the country is directing the the conflict strategy. uh we know that the country itself is under an almost complete internet blockade block lock block lockdown. um so very little is coming from the country itself. but to suggest that we are already in a regime change scenario i think is uh ambitious. i think it's it's not actually appropriate language. uh we have seen personnel shifts but we have not yet seen the regime collapse or regime change. this is a regime that is very much continuing by all accounts to execute uh a strategy that was set before the ayatollah was killed um even as it has seen massive massive personnel migrating and those 11,000 attacks within the country 11,000 strikes that the us has imposed on the country itself. so we're not yet in a regime change scenario. doesn't mean that we may not one day get there. um, but for now i i think that's inappropriate language to apply. >> and lindsay, gulf allies are reportedly frustrated here, both at the well at the lack of appar apparent lack of strategy from president trump, but also privately questioning american security guarantees. how significant is that for us influence in the region? could that frustration start to reshape alliances in the middle east? lizzie, i think what we're seeing here from the us administration is that the us administration wanted to achieve certain objectives around the missile program, around the naval program, around the nuclear program and then it has had because of iran's response certain uh has had to make some adjustments and now so for example the straight of hormuz and reestablishing deterrence over the straight of hormuz has now vaunted to the top of the list and so the us is now struggling with what cost it's willing to pay in order to achieve these objectives. and we know back at home in the us that 3/arters of americans are worried about the us getting too involved there. so what that means is the signals coming out of the us are quite difficult to read. and for its gulf partners, that means they're left wondering, well, are we going to actually see the us continue through this through this operation or are they going to back away? that obviously leaves them feeling quite unsettled, quite nervous. but most of that is coming from actually iran's strategy itself. the fact that iran has decided to pursue horizontal escalation and make the conflict not just iran's problem but the region's problem. i think that these these partnerships, these alliances are deeper than just this conflict. they are economic. they're in terms of supply chain. you know, the us under president trump has worked very uh hard over this administration and his first administration to deepen those relationships. so, i wouldn't think that these are going to that this comp this operation itself is going to to damage those relationships. and if anything, it's shown to regional partners that the us is remains the most uh sort of impactful security superpower in the world. that's what we're all seeing from this. lindsay, thanks for your analysis. good to speak to you. lindsay newman, visiting research fellow at king's college, london. coming up then, iranbacked houthi militants have entered the middle east war, as we've just been discussing, raising concerns about the threat uh to shipping in the red sea. of course, pre-existing concerns, reigniting concerns around the red sea. we will talk more about that next. this is bling back. they've agreed to send eight boats two days ago and then they added another two. so it was 10 votes and now today they gave us as a tribute i don't know i can't define it exactly but they gave us i think out of a sign of respect 20 boats of oil big boats of oil. president trump speaking aboard air force one there. it does seem that volumes going through the straight of still firmly reduced compared to what they uh what they were previously. some of the chinese and pakistani shipments according to our reporting managing to get through. but let's talk about disruption to global trade. uh the houthi's entrance into the iran war adds further complications to global shipping and supply chains already dealing with the blockage of the straight of hormuz. uh with the hormuz and babel mendab straits compromised, tankers are diverting around africa skyroing rocketing costs and transit times. let's bring in our trades, brendan murray, who's been tracking the trade story for us and can can talk us through some of the latest here. um, so brendan, how much does it complicate things that the red sea now we could see tensions there, the houthis entering uh the uh entering the conflict of course and that brings in the red sea, but the red sea wasn't deemed to be fully passable even before this this war started, was it? so what difference does it make to the global sort of shipping narrative? >> yeah. well, it just adds to the overall uh cloud of uncertainty surrounding the ability to to ship goods through uh through the red sea, the suez canal. uh the houthis uh you know have harassed shipping uh since late 2023. uh they had kind of gone quiet for a while. uh and some of the container shipping lines were even talking about coming back through the red sea a couple of months ago, but of course since the war started on february 28th, uh they've started going back around. so the big question is to what extent will the houthis uh start to to affect the shipping lanes again? in the energy sector, we've seen the saudis come up with this workaround to pipe uh that their oil across to the west coast to jedha and try to export it that way. so, the question is, will the houthis uh try to try to prevent that uh energy supply from from reaching markets overseas >> and why you've got so much disruption a month into this war? how's the port ecosystem holding up? >> yeah, it's a really complicated one. uh number one because uh the air cargo, marine cargo and road cargo are all sort of tied together and you've got uh restrictions in in in air cargo capacity still. there there's still some airspace that's closed and and the carriers aren't uh running at full schedule. you've got jebel ali, the biggest port outside of asia that is operational, but there's no there's no volumes flowing in and out of there because ships can't come and go. and so that's creating the opportunity there for uh the the port operators to try to work with other ports in the region to get to get containers flowing from these other ports. but we saw over the weekend that a port in oman oman was hit uh by a by a projectile and and marque said that that was going to be out of commission for a couple of days. so, you've got this kind of whack-a-ole situation going on where uh the workarounds are starting to become the targets and some of those targets are increasingly becoming industrial uh assets. um you know, we saw the aluminum uh smelter get get hit over the weekend. so, the war is widening not only geographically but uh in segments of the economy. >> yeah. mk saying that that impact of the incident is going to be limited and mk shares actually up 1.5% this morning. >> yeah. which sometimes trades off the pricing, doesn't it? that longer route around africa, if that's more likely, they charge higher prices and then they can they they make more money that way. um, let me ask you about how this is widening to other commodities as well. so, you've talked about how this is widening in terms of targets. we've gone from just targeting military to now to to now industrial and questions over energy of course with the the truce on that front from president trump um getting an extension. but in terms of widening the commodities being affected, aluminium then is now in focus. fertilizers. a lot of talk over the weekend about what this does to global supply chains for food. what what are we looking at there, brendon? >> exactly. so that so the the companies that operate in the region have a certain amount of inventory that they can absorb uh you know some some weeks of a shock but once those start to run out and and their operations there whether they're their distribution hubs or some sort of assembly that they're doing there and and once they run out of the inventory to keep their production going, they're going to have real problems and they're going to they're going to call on uh the the you know government authorities for for help and the and the sort of band-aids that they've put up to try to bring in cargo on the road are going to are going to become ineffective and they're going to need a lot more help. so, it basically uh it the the signal is that this is going to uh this is going to widen beyond the region. the economic impact uh the price of things uh that we wouldn't normally think would be associated uh with uh you know an energy crisis in the middle east will start to go up as well. >> yeah. if you have higher aluminium prices, you'll get that hit to manufacturing and then less manufacturing goods to to go through, right? a vicious cycle. and but just focusing on oil, you know, we've got a fantastic feature today talking about how the oil shortage impact is going to spread from the from asia here to the west. what's the implication of that for broader trade? >> yeah, i mean it's it's one of those things. well, you know, everything kind of runs on fossil fuels. you know, shipping the ships that move oil run on run on uh on bunker fuel. and so it's uh it's all kind of snowballing in a way that's really going to uh to to to to go beyond the energy question. i i heard a story yesterday about a ship that needed to offload uh onions from from uh from abroad to into the uae. now you can imagine, you think onions, you know, how big of a deal is that? but you can imagine a shipload of onions that doesn't get to where it needs to go with the impact that that would have on the on the on the food service industry where those need to go. it's that kind of thing that, you know, we're going to hear more and more of. >> okay, brendan, thank you for the color. brendan murray, our trades are there uh for a look at the impact on trade and shipping. let's just take a look at what else we're watching throughout the week. today we've got german cpi and the uk chancellor rachel reeves joining a meeting between g7 finance energy and and energy ministers and central bankers as well. later on tomorrow we have euro area and french cpi as the french president emanuel mong visits japan and south korea on wednesday. on wednesday we have arteimus 2 launching as well as us retail sales and on thursday it's us jobless claims before on friday uh we get us unemployment data but it is of course good friday. so we'll have partial market closures here in europe and stateside. but joining us more for more on what to expect in markets this week is bloomberg's moana from the markets today team and moana. i mentioned some of that us data coming through. but given that you've got the market closures and given so many developments in the middle east war, how relevant will it be to to traders expectations of the fed path ahead? >> i think that's really um an important point. um it will be difficult to take um a clear read also data tends to be backward-looking and i think right now markets are really looking forward and in some ways for the first time during this conflict are really starting to price in what's a protracted conflict um really focusing on the implications for growth rather than inflation um and that's something we're seeing in the bond market today um with sovereign debt um actually rising um across regions whereas we have seen it really taking a hit from those rising inflation expectations. now people are starting to say actually these higher energy prices which may be there for some time to come are actually going to harm growth. um and that actually means that central banks may take a a more hawkish um sorry be have less inclination to take that really hawkish stance that had been feared. um and actually yeah the focus could be on growth. so that data may feed into some of that but i think um actually something that's backward-looking particularly on a market closure day is is going to be difficult to really too much into. >> yeah. so that's the us employment side. we get before that midweek we get the euro zone inflation picture. i wonder if that actually threatens to have more of an impact. it is data for march at least and it does relate to that pivot that we've seen in bond markets. you know bond markets going from thinking about inflation to thinking about growth. they could get a reminder come the middle of the week about the inflation risks i suppose. >> absolutely. i mean we saw that to an extent um even with last week's cpi for the uk which was you know february and actually we saw it in europe as well where it's like oh but even before march things were actually not quite as good as policy makers would have hoped. i think certainly if it comes in hotter than expected um particularly given it is full march we will it will be the first time we really do see some of the actual impact on inflation um that the conflict is having that the higher energy prices are having although of course we still haven't seen those higher energy prices properly filter through um to households um perhaps we have seen it at the um fuel pumps but we haven't seen it in terms of energy bills that tends to be a bit more delayed but we will start to soon and that'll really really watching. >> moana, thank you very much. that's beanber's morena conium. and that does it for the opening trade. the pulse with anna is coming up next as we look at the stock 600 now in the green, up a tenth of a percent and us futures getting increasingly positive, up 4/10 of a percent on s&p evenings. that does it for the opening trade. this is