# YouTube Video BvpIMA4a43U

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BvpIMA4a43U
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 3283 词

---

Hello my dear friends, you're in the military with summary channel and this video we're going to discuss the most important events that took place during the previous 12 hours. We have a lots of very interesting updates. So let's start. And first we're going to talk about the Ukrainian conflict where during the previous nights once again both the Russians and the Ukrainians attacked each other with drones. And this picture was published this morning by pro Ukrainian sources. And according to this picture, the Ukrainians used at least 100 or around 190 drones to attack the thro of Russia. And there were, according to this picture, at least three roads of attack. And you know that this is a very interesting situation uh because during the night we received a lots of updates about explosions, about the places and sites that were attacked by the Ukrainians. And right before this attack was launched by the Ukrainian forces, we received this article published by pro-Russian sources. Russia issued a special warning to the Baltic countries over their decision to open their airspace to the flight of Ukrainian drones, said Russian foreign minister special representative Maria Zaharava. They were warned if they don't understand they will get the response the diplomat noted. So the Russians are trying to tell us the following that the Baltic states during the previous days opened their airspace for Ukraine to attack the chief of Russia and since that moment the Ukrainians have possibilities to attack their drones uh to launch their drones not let's say from the northern parts of Ukraine let's say using these directions of attacks. So now the Ukrainians according to this information are able to use their drones uh to attack the thro of Russia let's say using these roads of attack and to answer the airspace of Russia in places where the Russians don't expect this. So, and the Russians warned the Baltic states that they must close their airspace for Ukraine drone. And if they don't do this, then the Russians will make an answer or something like this. And the most important thing of this situation is that overnight we received lots of updates that several drones managed to hits and gets the city of Fuga once again and sack the port infrastructure in this area. And this picture and this video was published this morning by several pro Ukrainian sources. And here we can see an explosion that took place according to the author of this article on the territory of the city of Luga on the territory of this port infrastructure. And several pro-Russian sources claimed or speculated that maybe these drones answered the territory of Liningat region through the territory of the Baltic states through their airspace that recently was opened for Ukrainian forces. So, of course, the Russians will investigate this case with this situation and then they will make a decision what to do next. But as of the morning of the 7th of April of 2026, we received a report that the Russians have prepared at least three uh missiles uh three arriles. Russia may soon again use the archnik against Ukrainian targets in the central and western Ukraine including KEF Ukraine monitoring resources report. The most important thing that the source are saying that there are three missiles. Two of them are arrnic missiles and one missile is a missile of a known type. So nobody knows what exactly is going to what exactly is the third missile and what kind of targets the Russians are going to attack within the next days. So very difficult to understand of course but once again according to this article the Russians could attack the western parts of Ukraine the obless the region and many many other different towns and cities exact exactly in this area. So of course let's wait and see what the Russians are going to do with this. Another important thing is that during the previous night, the Russians also attacked the TH3 Ukraine and the pro- Ukrainian sources stated that Russians used 110 drones to attack the TH3 Ukraine. And according to updates that we received this morning, most of the strikes took place as you can see in the Cherniggo region and in the northern parts of Sumu region. So there were explosions on the church of the city of Chernig itself. We have a lots of updates on this matter. There were strikes in the area of the settlement of Ripki. We have strikes in Kumi. Uh some warehouses were damaged and destroyed. We have reports that the Russians attack sacked Nogard Searski. The settlement almost in the most northeastern part of Ukraine. The settlement of Vina was attacked and the settlement of Priuki was attacked its central part. Uh the source are saying that the Russians attacked the Sichi console. So the government office that was destroyed as you can see. Maybe the Ukrainians use this government office as a recruit center. Who knows? Uh but this is not the only place where the Russians attacked the government office of Ukraine. The city of Piluki was under attack and the city of Nogarki. Both cities uh both city councils were damaged and destroyed on the territory of these settlements. So this is what the Russians were attacking overnight and of course the city of Adessa. During the night, lots of explosions and fire anomalies were recorded in this area as well. Anyway, let's wait and see what is going to happen next. But if Russians are going to launch three arring systems at the same time, this is going to be a very expensive situation obviously and it seems that the Russians may plan to attack something very important. Different experts uh speculated and projected that probably the Russians would attack the warf region more precisely the gas storage of Ukraine in the area of the Shichov three. So they will try to destroy this gas storage facility with a purpose to destroy this storage completely. Very difficult to understand how exactly the Russians are planning to break through and to bridge this uh the shelter of this uh gas facility. But maybe the Russians understand what they're doing. Another important thing that during the previous nights the city of Rosa Rossuch was attacked by the Ukrainians and according to information we have this chemical plant was damaged by the Ukrainians. It seems that this is uh another key chemical plant of the Russian Federation that produce ammonia and probably different parts for fuel that the Russians use for their missiles or drones or something like this. Now let's discuss the situation on the ground and first let's talk about the Schuma direction where the Russians are keeping infiltrating and according to information we have during the previous nights the Russians improved their positions around the settlement of Riasnam and according to these changes as we can see the Russians most likely have entered the southeastern and the eastern parts of the settlement which means that the clashes are going to take place very soon for this village the hierarchy of direction during the previous night. We haven't received anything special. Probably the only video from the uh from the western area. So this is the video uh this is probably another video with the consequences of attack overnight. Yes, it seems that's another fuel depot of the Ammed for Ukraine was damaged and destroyed to the south of the settlement of Aurka. Here we can see a civilian driving through this area and he was making a video of a very huge fire and smoke over this object of energy infrastructure. the Slivven's direction. During the previous 12 hours, we received a lots of updates of how Russians were attacking and bombing positions of the Amad for Ukraine on the church of the city of Raikandrafka. And as you can see, we are no longer receiving updates to the east of the Raleigh city of Rexandraka only at the updates from this territory. And these attacks and these artillery strikes confirm probably the current line of combat contact. And the most important thing that these attacks and these strikes with artillery confirmed that the Russians are actively trying to break through Ukraine's defense and answer the settlement of Fraando with soldiers with soldiers with a purpose to dig in deeper and to begin the battle for this area. The Constantino direction during the previous night we received a small updates from the area of Bisto. We have added additional contested area because overnight we received the video of how Russians were attacking Ukrainian soldiers along this tree line. It seems that Ukrainians still had access to the settlement of Bisto through these positions and the Russians were trying to secure this area with FPV drones. The Draola direction during the previous 12 hours we received a lot of updates. As you can see it seems that this direction is becoming very very active for both the Russians and the Ukrainians. We've received a lots of updates, a lots of map updates in the city since the beginning of this month. For example, this is the situation by the end of the 30th of March of 2026. And from this moment, the map began adjusting almost every single day and we were adding sometimes a contested area in Russian favor, sometimes we removed the contested area in the favor of the armed forc. So it seems that the very that there is a very heavy combat clashes between uh positions of Russian or in the area of Rodinskanova Shakawa and Ukraine positions in the area of the Braolia. As for the latest updates, the Russians it seems are about to establish complete control over the uh mine by the name of Zaparoska. This one that which is located to the west of the city of Rodinska. But from the other side we see that Ukrainians are keeping advancing in the area of the settlement of the Braapoleon. During the previous days, the Ukrainians managed to improve their position significantly in this area and to recapture the settlement of WA and to recapture at least half of the village of Nova Donbas. And according to these updates, we see that the first sabotage on reconnaissance groups of the armored force of Ukraine managed to cut the main logistic lines that the Russians used uh to support their content on the territories of the villages of Ivanovka Shakawa and Nova Donbash. So the Ukrainians are taking in pins this pocket with a purpose to force the Russians to fall back from this area and to improve the positions of the of the draia content of the am before the beginning of a major battle for this area. Now let's move further and let's talk about the direction where the Russians are keeping advancing. During the previous night we received additional batch of changes. So this is the situation by the end of the uh let's say let's uh of the 3rd of April of 2026. It seems that this is the moment when everything started when the Russians began their major offensive for Kurishn and it seems that this is the moment when the Russians managed to break through Ukraine's defense at least in the direction of the city of Farov and Gulk. According to information we have additional sabotage and reconnaissance groups managed to improve their positions around the settlement of Gulsk itself from the south from the east and from the northeast and the Russians are keeping advancing. As of now no presence of Russians on the chariot of the village was recorded by the Russians are about to do this. Furthermore sabotage and reconnaissance groups of the armed force of the Russian Federation managed to approach the settlement of Yagorovka and Novaska. It seems that the Russians are trying to cut this line and to cut these two villages from supply and support. We're talking about Noasulov and Gulka. Furthermore, the Russians managed to improve their position significantly around the settlement of VNA. Basically, the village was taken by Russian sabotage and reconnaissance groups and pinsers from the south and from the north. And furthermore, the Russians improved their position significantly in the southeastern parts of the settlement of Vasovka. Furthermore, the Russians are keeping bombing the settlement of Vasizka with aviation, with artillery, trying to force the Ukrainians to pull back from this area without showing a resistance. So, uh, according to this point, according to these map changes, we can say that from this perspective, from this configuration, if the Ukrainians are not going to do anything with this, they will lose control over these two villages in coming days. So, we have covered most of the most of the updates regarding the conflict on the CH Ukraine. probably there were two more few more important statements. Yes, there was a statement made by Zilinski. He proposed an energy truce to Russia. If Russia stops attacks on Ukraine's energy sector, we will respond in kind. He stated that most likely he has information that the Russians are planning to use the Arishnik missile systems to attack uh probably the gas storage around the city of village of. So that is why Zilinski is trying to avoid the situation. A few uh the Ukraine authorities stated that they have enough of human resources to continue fighting for another 10 years and even more. That was stated by deputy of Ukraine Parliament Mijanka. So as you can see from one side uh the Ukrainians are trying to uh to uh start some ceasefire truce energy truce but from the other side we see that Ukrainians are preparing themselves for 10 more years of clashes and fightings with Russians. Now let's discuss the situation in the Middle East. Today is the Tuesday of the 7th of April of 2026. Uh we have a lot of uh interesting statements made during the previous nights. uh big political scandal is brewing uh in Washington. Let's discuss everything in details. Iran is charging ships passing through the street of former Sinuani which threatens the dollar's position. This was stated by American Senator Lindsey Graham. He noted that since 1974 oil has been traded in dollars worldwide and Iran uh switch to the yuan is seen as attack on the US currency. So we see that most likely the something big is inevitable and most likely this is going to happen uh as was uh announced by the president of the United States of America uh at 8:00 p.m. Tuesday 7th of April of 2026. Meanwhile, we received the report that the political scandal is escalating in Washington. Democratic representative Samin Ansari has announced the introduction of impeachment articles against the US Secretary of Defense Pete Haxed and probably due to this situation uh today's Pentagon briefing with Secretary of Defense Pete Haxed and chairman of the joint chiefs of staff uh has been cancelled and that was stated by the US defense department. Another important thing is that uh the statement of the America that he made yesterday in the evening they the entire country could be taken out in one night and that night could be tomorrow night. So the America most likely will finish everything he started and will uh do everything he promised. So, which means that most likely uh on Tuesday evening 8:00 p.m. and when talking about Iran, this is going to be a 3rd of 8th of April. And around 3:00 a.m. or something like this and during this period of time, the United States of America, the collision will begin bombing and attacking the state of Iran significantly as they haven't attacked before. As of the morning of the 7th of April, as for the Iranian time, we received lots of updates that lots of explosions were already recorded both on the territory of Iran and on the territories of the coalition. Explosions took place on the territory of the capital. A lots of videos were published from the city. Here we can see how the uh coalition was attacking and destroying helicopters on the church of the airfield in the city of Tigran. Here we can see the first seconds after first explosions and first attacks that were carried out on Tigran during the uh period of time between the 6th and the 7th of April. Uh here we can see more explosions and more attacks that took place in the northern part. So we see that it seems that the collision uh began implementing uh the issues for the Iranian side before ultimatum ends or expires. It seems that these states are trying to force the Iranians to accept the commit capitulation and the US demands before this date before the end of ultimate but we know that the Iranians are staying on their positions. Furthermore, during the nights, we received the reports that the Iranians attacked the state of Saudi Arabia, its biggest oil refinery. And lots of explosions and lots of videos were published from this area of how the Iranians were attacking Al Juba Jubai industrial city, Saudi Arabia. And we have this picture of fire anomalies. And it seems that the Iranians managed to deal a significant damage to this object of energy infrastructure, which also first of all pushes the prices higher. But at the same time, it makes uh Saudi Arabia probably more interested in possible in a possible ground operation or any other escalation with Iranians on the side of the coalition. Furthermore, during the night, we received a report that the king fat caused by the Bahrainians. It seems that they believe that maybe the Iranians were attacking this bridge but not the oil refinery of Saudi Arabia. So that is why they closed the bridge. And I would like to remind you that several days ago uh the Iranians promised to attack several bridges through the uh Middle East region and this bridge is on the list. Another important thing, United Arab Emirates. Lots of updates were published from this area as well. Lots of facilities, lots of uh gas stoages, different plants were damaged during the previous days. And this situation also forces uh to strengthen uh its uh position and ties between Israel and the United Arab Emirates mainly because both now see Iran as a shared threat. So this is also a very important thing uh which most likely will change the Middle East region for the next century. The Iranians are keeping control over the straight of Hormus and they don't allow anybody to use this area. Uh furthermore, the Iranians continue attacking the United Arab Emirates Dubai. Several vessels managed to cross the straight of Hormus during the night, but several were trying to do this, but were forced to fall back. Probably they haven't received any permission from the Iranian side or they decided or uh or rejected to pay any fees to the Iranian side. So we can say that's just several hours left before the ultimate expires and then the United States of America will begin bombing and attacking the state of Iran as we haven't seen ever before. So let's wait and see what is going to happen next and the situation is very difficult. And that's it for the short video. The military summary channel reminds we can any violence in the world. Thank you for watching. Subscribe to my channel, put your likes, join my patre and have a good day. Bye-bye.