# YouTube Video d3kuwAksfG4

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d3kuwAksfG4
**字幕语言：** English (auto-generated)
**字数：** 363 词

---

In Gaza, at least 10 people have been killed in an Israeli bombing of the Al-Magghazi refugee camp in central Gaza Strip. The attack was the result of an Israeli drone strike on the camp where thousands of displaced Palestinians are sheltering. Israel regularly bombs Gaza despite a ceasefire agreed last year. Math al Kalut reports from Alexa Mart's Hospital in Dabbella in the central Gaza Strip. We are currently in Alaka hospital in central Gaza. And despite the ceasefire, the situation here is very chaotic as a result of arriving a huge number of casualties as the Israeli army opened fire and they assaulted the eastern parts of the al- Marazi refugee camp in the eastern parts of central Gaza. And what you are seeing right now are the families who are waiting any piece of information over the health situation of their beloved ones. And we can clearly see here the collapsed fathers who are crying over the loss of their beloved ones. The situation here is very chaotic as the Israeli army opened fire on the Palestinians in who live in the eastern parts of Almazi refugee camp. And we are talking about a huge number of casualties despite the ceasefire. This is the morg of Alaka hospital and the number of casualties and the killed people expected to rise as a result of the continuing of the attacks of the eastern parts of alazi refugee camp. We are talking here about uh elderly, women and children who are in the mall right now and in the uh emergency department the doctors are dealing with uh critical cases as a result of these attacks and the situation here is very very chaotic. Allow me to mention that this attack is unprecedented as the Israel army is with coordination with the militia are opening fire at the Palestinians who live in the uh eastern parts of alazi refugee camp and this is the first time to happen and the operation and the hit and run operations are still ongoing so far and we don't know when these operation or when these attacks will be ended. Muhamad Jazzer from central Gaza, Palestine.