# YouTube Video iCII6r_w-2g

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iCII6r_w-2g
**字数：** 11704 词

---

government. there is now a window of of opportunity for syria to show that it can move forwards and towards a truly inclusive transition. the syrian transitional government and the syrian democratic forces are currently implementing the 30th january agreement which includes first integration in the mainstream administrative and security forces. second, political participation of kurds in local and central government governance. third, education recognition. and fourth governmental control over key oil fields, airport, airport and border crossings. it is important that the that the presidential decree of the 16th january granting a broad spectrum of rights to the kurdish people is fully implemented. the recent developments also highlight the ongoing security risks, especially the potential resurgence of dash. we remain concerned about the escape of an unknown number of detainees. while transferring detainees to iraq will alleviate pressure on syria, the burden remains significant. damascus is now the main interlocator for countering terrorism. nonetheless, the kurds have been a steadfast ally against terrorism and we hope that they will remain engaged while integrated in the mainstream syrian institutions. the eu and member states are the main donors for syria, including regarding the camps and northeast syria. we will continue supporting syria through bilateral assistance and within the framework of the global coalition. as the largest humanitarian donor, the european union remains also committed to providing humanitarian aid to syrians as long as needed. however, humanitarian assistance alone cannot meet all the needs in syria and must be complemented with increased development and recovery funding. since the fall of assad, the european union has adapted its relationship with syria to support an inclusive political transition. that means the aspiration of all syrians by leveraging political dialogue, sanctions, and assistance. in 2025, we hosted the ninth brussels conference. we also launched the syria partnership coordination forum and co-organized the day of dialogue focused on civil society. we also mobilized uh then 424 million euro in european union support for syria including 175 million euro for social economic recovery which we must drive forward even more vigorously. the visit of presidents both fonderland and costa on n on the 9th of january was a clear signal of our willingness to engage with damascus. it has highlighted a new political partnership reinforcing economic cooperation and offering a new substantial financial package of€ 620 million e for 2026 and 2027. there is clearly a mutual interest for us and the syrians to work together on institution and capacity building. through this, the european union can anchor the transition in key principles of sustainable governance, accountability, and justice and contribute to rebuilding trust between the state and society. the european union remains committed to engaging with syria and regional partners in view of ensuring both an inclusive transition and stability and security. thank you so much. >> um okay. and >> and now miss tag for the ep that you don't fall down on the stairs. it can be dangerous. happens to best of us. >> no problem. thank you, dear colleagues. northeast syria is once again descending in violence and civilians are paying the price. since early january, clashes between government forces and the syrian democratic forces have spread from aleppo towards raqqa, elsahaka, and dzor. the consequences are devastating. hundreds of thousands without electricity, water or food. over 170,000 people displaced and children are dying from cold hunger and lack of basic medical care. at the same time, the fragile security architecture that kept dash contained is unraveling. turmoil around detention centers such as elhole and roy has already led to the escape of isil fighters. let us be clear, what happens in these camps will not stay in syria. it directly affects europe. we take note of the ceasefire and integration agreement of 30th january. assession of hostilities is essential but stability cannot come at the expense of rights, representation and local governments. the kurdish population which paid a heavy price in the fight against dash especially the ladies must be meaningful included in syrian's political future. we condemn the serious human rights violation reported in recent weeks and call for independent investigations and full un access. this parliament must act by increasing humanitarian aid, supporting counterterrorism efforts, protecting minorities, and advancing an inclusive syrian political transition. europe must not look away. thank you so much. thank you, mr. manis for the socialists. speaker, president, the situation in northeastern syria is extremely fragile and very, very concerning. from the beginning of january, we have military conflicts. the attack of the forces of the temporary government, transitional government against the cursed and the syrian democratic forces and the repeated violations of the ceasefire have led to displacements, massive displacements, lack of basic services and increasing danger for the civilians and especially for women and children. the agreement of the 30th of january is an important step towards stabilization. however, it should be implemented and should lead to a real inclusive transition which will respect the self-government regime of northeastern syria. the transitional government has to prove that it means what it says. words are not enough anymore. we need specific actions that will assure the political and cultural rights of all the religious and ethnic minorities in syria. the european union has responsibility to support actively this procedure. we should support the new syrian government. however, however, any financing should be accompanied by very serious uh points concerning the protection of fundamental rights of all citizens irrespective of the religion and nationality and ethnicity. we should condemn the destabilizing role played by third countries such as turkey. turkey is um creating the tension in voro, northeastern syria and attacks in kobani, the kurds, where the humanitarian situation is extremely critical. finally, we shouldn't forget that thousands of ex fighters of dash remain in the region. the danger of them being set free and to have terrorism reborn in the area is something more than tangible. today our message should be clear. ceasefire, protection of the civilians, respect of rights and a real inclusive political transition, protecting the rights of all citizens. mr. thank you, >> mr. touch. and year ago in moscow, assad, the last dictator, went over to moscow and was replaced by the hayat al-ssham leader, akmad al-shara, propped up by western leaders. and we deal with them as though they were democratic leaders for the future in syria. we warned about the danger of this unconditional support of these islamists against vulnerable groups. whilst this parliament legitimized ahmed shara as a leader, it acted very naively when he said that he was going to have an and yet what we saw was death. and the same went for the duses in the south of the country, although israel got involved to protect them. now it's up to the kurds in the northeast of syria. it's their turn with ethnic cleansing and religious cleansing in also subsidized by turkey. well, islamist inclusive transition that doesn't mean anything. there's the threats of reprisals and jihadist terrorism. what we are not seeing is respect for the life of non-muslim minorities. thank you. mr. banim in december 2024 ended five decades of bist authoritarianism long sustained by russian military financial and political support. moscow's intervention prolonged the war, enabled mass atrocities and destabilized the region far beyond syria's border. yet assad's collapse has not brought stability. power vacuums are being filled by fragmented armed groups. and the transitional government's leader, ahmed al-sharia, emerging from a sunni islamist militant background, shows no remorse for past ties to al qaeda. how can syria move to toward peace when the remnants of jihadist networks risk replacing one form of authoritarian rule with another? not to mention isis and the threat of its resurgence as jihadist fighters have escaped from prisons, including some holding eu citizenship. this creates a direct threat to the european security. the eu's position must be clear. syria cannot move from dictatorship into jihadist instability. would be your repertoire on syria and it's an honor. it's and i want to talk to you about honor europe. i would like europe to honor its debt that which it has uh with the kurdish people who fought with us against de for more than 10 years. the kurds are brothers in arms and knowing that they depend on humanitarian convoys and that they're encircled is uh not acceptable. we need to uh fight against help them against um turkey and other people who are working against them. the terms of the 29th of january needs to be respected. this agreement would not have happened without the involvement of france and my france has the honor to have contributed to a ceasefire and turkish specific kurdish specificity and the rise of damas wouldn't have been possible uh without the support of turkey and the lesser fair hands-off approach of uh the us. washington and anchora took the risk through their indifference in having a situation where jihadi prisoners could escape. there is nothing honorable about the choices they've made. but let's come back to europe. we need to make our support uh to syria conditional upon the respect of all of uh syria's peoples. it's up to us to face the situation of the jihadi prisoners whose uh fate is as important to us as it is to syria and iraq. they are for us a security risk that we've had for years subcontracted out to the kurds in syria. we can no longer look the other way. it's about our own security and also about our honor. well, dear colleagues, the brutal attacks on the northeast are a painful reminder of syria's darkest chapters. an entire generation in syria has grown up under assad's cruel dictatorship and civil war. every new escalation opens wounds that never had the time to heal. the violence must end once and for all. and this is the responsibility of all sides. and it is al shar's responsibility if he wants to be the president of syria to be a president for all syrians and to ensure that syria is safe for everyone. for decades, majority kurdish areas have been the most democratic and inclusive parts of syria. they are a blueprint for the future many syrians hope for. kurdish rights are now written into a decree. but real guarantees must be enshrined into the constitution. and kurdish representatives need to have a seat at the table in damascus. and we also have a homework of our own dear colleagues. for years, i have called on our governments to repatriate dish fighters and families to bring them to justice in europe. now the risk of diet regrouping is higher than ever. i would rather see these fighters in european prisons than back on the battlefields. and all of this clearly shows syria is not safe for forced returns. instead of scaring syrians in europe and fueling toxic migration debates, let's all focus on helping rebuild a country that finally has a chance to heal its wounds and becomes free for everyone. president and kana is under siege and um it's there surrounded by the troops of the syrian um troops their lack of food, medicine, water is uh short and we have uh how can we have the geodist alchar having become the best friend uh of the uh europeans uh mrs. fonda leon gave um syria large uh sum of money on the very day when the uh alura started his war against the uh kurds. that wasn't bad timing. that's the outcome of a cynical political approach. the only goal of which is to get the syrian refugees out of europe away from europe as far as possible and turn them back to uh syria. i spoke with mr. kobani and people who regardless of their religion and ethnic belonging just want a fair society in syria. these people need international support and in spite instead of uh that we have france and uh germany uh turning their back on our um allies uh there and and uh we have a murderous ideology wearing a tailormade suit, but it still remains a murderous ideologist. we mustn't roll out the red carpet for al sharah. we want we need the kurds to win the day uh in order to ensure a democratic and uh fair syria. rosa was it was a um tower of hope in uh syri in the middle east but now uh all of this is under attack by the uh government in syria and we mustn't give al- sharah any money we need an end to the uh fighting we need to recognize self-government and we need to stand up for the rights of the kurds thank you and now mr. haw president of syria is comes from an offshoot group from al-qaeda and the european commission is supporting this regime with money. 600 million i think was handed over when the president of the commission went to syria. so that's something we need to talk about. now the latest uh victims of your values are the kurds. there are terrorists attacking them and also terrorists are escaping from the prisons that the kurds were watching. now we are funding these syrian and that is a problem. now a million syrians live in germany. only a third of them are working, but they're over represented when it comes to rapes, murders, etc. many german women have been raped by foreigners. and those are the values i would say that you stand for. the war finished over a year ago now. friedrich mertz has announced that he's going to be deporting lots of people. but do you know how many syrians have been deported since he said that? just one. one single one. but we've had 50,000 new migrants during that time. the in berlin, syrians celebrated the fall of assad. but we need to ensure that they can live their dreams in syria rather than in europe. so our priorities are clear. let's send syrians refugees back. we need also to send ursula vanderelion to the moon. i would say thank you, mr. sanchez amore. >> thank you, president. i'll be speaking in spanish. dear commissioner, some friendly advice for institutions of the eu. we shouldn't interfere in the institutional design of the country. if all minorities are included, the war has changed reality on the ground that now needs to be changed into a constitution and a legal system. and the country has to decide how its new constitution reflects the new reality on the ground. we shouldn't carry on giving a blank check to the government to keep playing this double game of uncontrolled militias and a national army. when something goes banned, they send in the militias. it's the alawites. and if not, then it's the national army. this has to be part of the conditions we set. the government has to stop using or saying that it doesn't control the militias when things go well. and when things do go well, it just uses the army. so we actually have to tackle this issue of the dual face of power in the country and as we've heard we have to support the minorities who have values closest to those of us in europe. thank you. syria is in armed conflict with the kurds who were on the front line against the jihadi groups. so this is the context and hundreds of jihadi fighters have now escaped from prisons that are no longer controlled by the kurds. now this is a time bomb. this area is at the doors of europe. for years, we have been criticizing the failures of european democracies, particularly france, and they have compromised themselves. now, macron was the first to receive the syrian president with all honors, and the president's links to al-qaeda are well known. islamist armed groups have plunged syria into terrorism and violence. now the european executive and the french government have refused to look reality in the face and now they're sitting on a veritable powder keg. these terrorists are now escaping prisons as i say and no one knows where they are. but i think the answer is clear. what they're going to try and do is get to europe by any means possible taking advantage of the mass immigration that's being allowed to take place. and every jihadi is now a direct threat to european citizens. we can't have our countries exposed to this kind of danger just for ideological reasons. we need to boost checks at the borders and stop these migration flows. the security of our citizens cannot be negotiated away. we can't have syrian chaos in our streets. thank you. colleagues, the situation in northeastern syria is extremely delicate. violence against civilians continues uh particularly against christians and other minorities. the conflict has been going for many years. the agreement between damascus and the syrian kurds uh it gives us some hope but its situation is still very uncertain. guarantees of security monitoring mechanisms and the risks of u not being able to have a ceasefire all of these things continue. we need to react with practicality and responsibility. we need to support a uh sustainable ceasefire, protection of minorities, uh ensuring security in northeastern syria. thank you. alani, mrs. alani, please. >> somehow a debate about the dire situation in syria turned into a migration debate by the far right. that's amazing. but president, dear colleagues, when alshara took to power, we all accepted him with a very bitter taste. so today, i'm standing here in a kurdish traditional address to honor the kurdish women and the people who have paid a very high price for their freedom. when they answered our call for help, were we trying to face dash is the most horrible terror organization? they were not only defending their homes, but they were also defending our freedom. kurds are asking for our help now. the roles are reversed. protection that is denied is unjustice and justice that is postponed is a justice that is denied. kurdish women are not left alone even when dead because when they die the terrorists cut off their braids. the attacks on the kurdish areas has to stop now. a ceasefire has to come now and banning and uh taking away lifting the de facto siege on kubani has to lift now. kurds, we see you. we hear you. you have more friends than the mountains in the european parliament. thank you. >> thank you, mr. let me tell you a story, a french story. the story of europe giving up on its principles. hamza is the person i'm going to talk about. he's french. when he was 12, he was taken to syria by his mother. he was exposed to war, death, the camps in northeast syria, and he never chose that. this his childhood was stolen from him. he's 22 years old. he's not guilty of anything. but while i speak, he is in an iraqi prison. he's being interrogated and beaten up. now, why is he in iraq? because france let it happen. he's not guilty of anything, but france is guilty. france is guilty of refusing to repatriate its citizens, particularly those children wi who were forced to syria. there are dozens of people like hamza. i've met some of them and they're waiting to be repatriated. their parents are waiting to go to court and face justice and victims associations want to see them in court. so, let's act in line with our principles. let's repatriate these children because they're innocent and let's bring these adults back to trial. thank you. >> salisarious alice, >> thank you. in recent days, we lived with deep dark concern for the fate of the autonomous administration of northeast syria, for the present and the future of the democratic conferederalist revolution. we fear the worst. but as our comrades on the ground taught us, we never abandoned resistance. we never stop lost hope. now an agreement with the transitional government of syria has been signed. if this was possible, it is thanks to the massive powerful mobilization of the peoples of northeast syria. it is thanks to the rise of the kurdish people across turkey, iraq, and iran. and it is also thanks to the international solidarity. now we must stay vigilant. we must ensure that every single term of that agreement is respected. we are not naive. we know that agreements are often disrespected and always reflect our relations of power. this is why it's up to us to do everything we can to strengthen dess. democratic and federalism is not just a regional project. is it a concrete alternative of peace and justice in the world dominated by nationalism, suprematism and violence? it is for the kurds but not only for the kurds. it is for arabs, assyrians, armenians, yazidis and turkmen. it is for women. it is for everyone who wish to live free. this struggle concerns us all. and the illegal seats of of koban humanitarian access now. >> thank you very much, mr. fik. >> president, you were happy when uh alani came to power. he's a former alcadi kadak terrorist. he's now uh walking on the red uh carpet meeting the great and the good from europe and you worry wonder about the end of kurdish autonomy in the north. you're naive. you want to stabilize syria. you need to speak with the players in the area with erdigan with others. we have we have taken many uh syri turkey has taken many syrians. assad is gone and now they need to go back to uh syria so that we can get stability in syria and we need to avoid chaos and mass migration. we need diplomacy. the ceasefire is good but it's a brittle ceasefire. if the people flee what their country once again, we're going to have syrian problems in europe once again. >> tomas. >> thank you very much, mr. gel. president, colleagues in syria, we're seeing a moral and security policy based admission of failure. for a decade, we celebrated the kurds as heroes. over 11,000 kurdish fighters lost their lives in order to defeat is also for our security here in europe. and how do we thank them? well, we just look on while they're being attacked on all sides. the un has reported that 170,000 people have been expelled from their homes. over 90% of them women and children in kam mishi. children are no freezing in their schools. while here we simply talk. now we are not going to see a decentralized syria. we're going to see a power vacuum in which is will thrive. let's not abandon the kurds. anyone who agrees to abandoning the kurds shouldn't be surprised to see terror return in the future. thank you, >> diana. >> thank you, madam tfco. >> madame commissioner, the situation in syria remains extremely fragile and once again, it is civilians and minorities who are bearing the heaviest burden. from the very beginning of the political transition, i have consistently underlined that the protection of all minorities must be at the core of any credible and sustainable solution for syria. safeguarding their rights is pres requisite for peace, reconciliation, and long-term stability. syria continues to face a profound absence of legitimate and inclusive governance. there's no functioning parliament, no credible electoral process and no meaningful space for civil participation. this institutional vacuum has only deepened fragmentation and mistrust across communities. at the same time, deepening the civilization through the ongoing destruction of culture and religious heritage represents an attack on its identity and history. decades of enforced authoritarian centralization have already demonstrated their failure. reproducing this model will only lead to renewed conflict and further marginalization of minorities. thank you. >> thank you daniela. >> when isis was advancing, many looked away, but the kurdish forces did not. they fought, they bled, and they died. not just for their land but also for our own security here in europe. today the very forces that crashed dish risk being dismantled. this is not just morally wrong but it was also strategically reckless. in rojava we saw something rare in syria and beyond. women leading communities coexisting local self-ruule instead of sectarian chaos. and what was our response? the european commission pledged 600 million to damascus without real conditionality. no hard guarantees on rights and no real accountability. this is not foreign policy. in my opinion, this is just wishful thinking. let's be clear, support for syria is good, but it must also mean protection for kurdish rights, security guarantees, and strict human rights conditionalities. otherwise, we will betray those who defi who defeated isis. and in the meantime, we weaken our own security. europe must stop being naive. stability without rights is just an illusion. thank you. >> thank you, >> mr. hovad commissioner. syria is heading to a very dangerous place now. plenty of uh terrorists have been uh leashed upon the nation. the government hasn't been able to do much in order to protect minorities. between 2026 and 27, syria is going to receive about 60 620 million in support from the eu. the stability of syria and respect for minority rights is a basic security interest for europe. the isis may be revived. we have to face this uh option. kurdish troops are defending europe at this point in time. we have to admit it. we remember 2015 when 10 million people had to leave their homes because of isis attacks and it leashed uh migrants in uh never in uh quantities never seen before on europe. we have to prevent this from happening. >> mr. madam, >> thank you, president. thank you, commissioner. after 15 years of civil war, syrian um suffering continues and today it's the minorities, the kurds and the christians and the alawits who are suffering. if europe really wants to help syria to rebuild, it needs to insist that uh al- shar protect minorities and the report on uh asylum is a real skylum because it denies the suffering of christians in uh syria but uh does not say the uh worries about the fate of others. the eu needs to ensure the protection of minorities and the end of all complacency with regard to jihadi uh groups. syria also needs its christians to rebuild. europe also needs to protect itself. and the member states need to be able to strip people of their european nationality and refuse their jihadis uh to return to europe, those people who have burnt their passports and um been terrorists. and we europe needs to stop being uh naive. >> mr. andrews, >> thank you, president, commissioner, and colleagues. uh the peace uh the agreement of march 2025 uh between the kurds, the scf, and the government uh promised some hope for the future. however, that is looking increasingly flat fragile. the blundering attempts by president trump uh are no match for the staying power of the european union. and i believe that the union has a really critical role now uh providing its credibility and its uh long-term staying power and institutional approach to broader a longer to broker a longer term peace. this must be matched by long-term support for good governance and support for the political economy of reconciliation. there's no room in complex post-conlict environments for a winner takes all approach. it is possible to reconcile the sovereignty of damascus uh with the kurdish aspirations which should be guaranteed. the lessons of libya, sudan, and other fragile states are clear. when basic needs are ignored and civilian protection is sidelined, violence inevitably returns. in sudan, we missed the window to support democratic transition. we cannot do the same in syria. thank you. >> thank you. madamera, >> thank you very much. madame commissioner, talking about syria today is also talking about the structural hypocrisy of europe because whilst we set sanctions on iran in the name of human rights, we've got gaza and we look away when faced with crimes being committed in turkey. in turkey in syria by turkey and the syrians. human rights. why sanctions in iran and not sanctions on turkey or syria? because turkey has a european border and because syria was someone we treated as a terrorist, but now is a useful ally. europe doesn't have a human rights policy. it has an interests policy. we use it. we use the kurds when they're fighting isis, but now we've abandoned them. not useful anymore. rahava really showed up this cynicism. the women were at the heart of the democratic revolution. when we abandoned rahava, we abandoned the women. and the question is, what will happen to these women? it's actually what will happen to europe when it abandons the values it says it defends >> thank you mr. demer madame dearl. >> thank you, president. well, in the middle east, we're seeing the cynicism of large powers. they're basically interfering. the kurds have been distributed over four states. for decades, their existence has been denied. they've been susped. nevertheless, they managed to build something that expressed hope. roawa. it was democratic and there was hope for everyone. they fought isis and as gratitude they're being sold up the river by the west. vond is cooperating with al shah the former is terrorist gives him millions in assistance in spite of massacres being carried out on alawites, kurds and the drews. we're quiet when kabani while kabani is under under siege. but colleagues, the kurds have an expression which says resistance is life. throughout their history, the kurds have fought. they're still there, and they will continue to fight for a democratic, sustainable, and just solution in the middle east for all people in kurdistan. and that's regardless of what the commission does. they will continue to fight. thank you. >> thank you, mr. foras. >> thank you, chairman commissioner. northeastern syria is bleeding again. and when we talk about geopolitical balances in reality, we're talking about human lives. we're talking about women, children for families living under terror and violence without electricity, without water. the kurds of the area, the ones who were in the first line against isis, fighting isis. they fought the jihadists, they sacrificed themselves, they protected not only their land but international security as well. together with them, the christians of syria, historical communities today that threatened with being from disappearing. we cannot abandon the forces who were fighting isis. we cannot abandon them. there is a cleansing going on there. damascus and ankara are in the first line in this effort. this is the tragic reality and turkey has a very heavy responsibility. those who believe that turkey is a reliable strategic partner for europe should notice this. we're going to put a snake in our house and it's going to bite us. remember what i'm saying. the european union must demand real protection for ethnic and religious minorities. our silence today will be make us accomplish this tomorrow. thank gian aadi, woman, life, freedom. we have all heard these words, but too few know where they came from. they are the foundation of the kurdish administration in rojava. they are the words shouted by kurdish female guerrillas as they stood against isis. when others in syria refused to fight, when the world hesitated, the kurdish forces of rojava stood their ground. in the midst of war, they built something rare. self-rule instead of tyranny, women's leadership instead of oppression, coexistence between kurds, arabs, and christians instead of sectarian hatred. those who defended us must now be defended. yes, integration matters, but so does respect for ceasefire. so do minority rights. and so does the dignity, culture, and education of kur and all other communities of syria. for long, this dress that i'm wearing today and this kurdish flag was banned in syria. for syria to become truly inclusive and truly democratic, it must respect all its communities. beji rojava, >> mr. kot mr. chairman, the members of the european parliament, the ongoing violence in northeast syria is a humanitarian tragedy with devastating consequences for civilians caught between waring parties. families are displaced, children live in fair, and basic securities are the constant threat. as parliamentarians committed first and foremost to the security and dignity of our nations and of people everywhere, we must recognize that european stability has a direct link to peace in its neighborhood. therefore, we call for a durable and verifi verifiable ceasefire that protects civilians without enabling endless military escalation. a ceasefire must be anchored in respect for local governance structures and be supported by concrete steps towards human excess reconstruction and regional stability. we urge the international community including the european union and its partners to prioritize civil and protection, uphold humanitarian law and avoid policies that deepen conflict. europe's role should be one of principal diplomacy ensuring that peace, order and respect for sovereign communities prevail. thank you very much. >> madame kango, >> mr. president and dear colleagues, madame commissioner, once again the kurds in syria are being sacrificed on the altar of cynical geopolitics. their communities that heroically defeated isis are being displaced, shelled, and coerced into perilious negotiations in damascus by regime backed by extremist militia, freed isis fighters and groups supported by our own nato ally turkey. these are the same kurds who with our allies dismantled the caliphate only to face betrayal from those who now caught a regime built on extremism and terror. remember julani is this man who once rejoiced in the 911 attacks who has overseen atrocities against alawitis duses and now kurds and who has released thousands of isis prisoners to bolster his ranks. all while shaking hands in the west and promising peace he never delivers. yet less than a year ago, the eu pledged 2.5 billion in financial support to the new syrian regime for 2025 and 2026. a resurgent network of al-qaeda and isis remnants on europe's doorsteps threatens us all. so dear colleagues, why are we paying for it? if we abandon the kurds now, we abandon not only them but also europe. thank you. sale. >> thank you, mr. sund. >> speak in danish. this really is one of the most important issues that we're discussing today. the kurds were our allies when we were fighting against is which helped us very much therefore to support our values. but now the kurds are a people who don't see a future in their own country maybe only in europe. we need to fight for the kurds. this is something that's important for us too and we need to defend their rights to live in freedom so that their language, their culture, their traditions are all protected. we need protection of the uh it's vital. thank you. >> thank you, mr. george. commissioner, there [snorts] is no good extremism, not useful violence. we are doing the same fatal mistake in syria. once again, we are naming violence as a asability and covered jihadism as a transition towards democracy. the commission of the united nations for syria noted that in 25 we had very horrible events in the coastal areas in the western areas of the country. um killings um violence thousands um displaced from the cause of the aloits. now they're moving against the kurds. the european commission supports politically golani who is a jihadist and the new regime and turkey of course which in agreement with golani is increasing the violence against the kurds and is murdering christian populations. i'm asking directly where did you lose your moral compass? how can you legalize crimes against civilians? you should stand on the side of the victims at last. no, with those who commit all these crimes. thank you. thank you very much. >> madame commissioner, uh the international community has welcome the political agreement and the ceasefire agreement reached between the syrian government and the sdf from march 2025 and january this year. yet, it's crucial that the significant steps towards deescalation are carried out in a way that will finally bring peace and protection to all citizens, of course, to all ethnic and religious communities in the country. in this sense, the institute for the documentation of human rights violations against religious minorities in the levant has published recently in february on february 3rd uh a report documenting and denouncing that alawit, drews, kurdish, yazidi and christian communities in syria face targeted killings, abductions, force displacement, and other forms of religious persecution. so, what can the european union do in this situation? well, i will suggest at least two things. first, in addition to all the efforts that the commission for the mediterranean is doing, i think the commission should also finally appoint a special representative for religious freedom. it's something that has been promised a year ago. it's time to deliver on it. second, to promote a federal constitutional framework in syria granting local and minority self-governance. i think that the eu should support the right of all citizens in the country to have an inclusive political system that will guarantee peace and stability. thank you. >> thank you, mr. shida. >> peace and in syria is not only essential for a stable middle east, but is also important for european uh security. and right now, those where our closest partners in fighting for this security, namely the kurdish communities in northeast syria, are living with an unstable ceasefire following weeks of persecution and dramatic killing. a long-term stable syria can only be built on an inclusive society. inclusivity for the kurdish, for the drews, for the syriaks, for the christians, for the elites, for the yidi, for the ismileia and the sunni arab communities. and of course, syrian sovereignity must have a precedence. but this is not only a question of a country's right, of sovereignity, is also a question of human rights and of selfdetermination. and therefore, i think we have to be clear what's going on now in syria is not good. and we have to work together with all those which is asking for a stable syria that we establish an inclusive society there. >> thank you mr. >> [snorts] >> commissioner, colleagues, the syrian crisis, which is a civil war, stems from the failure [snorts] of uh a range of world powers. as barack obama talked about the red line with regard to chemical weapons, but that didn't work. and then we turned a blind eye to the activities of isis. russia uh stepped in in 2015 and its actions have led to the death of thousands of people and to chaos and it has pushed syria into this civil war. now when we look at the violence in syria in particularly at la against religious minorities it's a real tragedy. thousands of people have been displaced and many of them will come to europe. prisoners have uh fled from the prisons and many of those have european citizenship and that's a risk for us. we've uh seen how the drews, the kurds have been attacked and the regime there doesn't respect human rights at all. and so we have to cooperate with the us. we have to protect our borders and we need to solve this problem. i don't know whether the president in damascus is listening, but i would say to you, you may have won a war, but there's no peace. you've been in power for a year now, elected, unelected, whatever. you talked about an inclusive syria. >> this is something that you and your transition government has constantly mentioned, but we're talking about uh massacres, hunger, exclusion, etc. we're not seeing an inclusive syria. you may well have won a war, but you haven't won the peace. the drews, the alawites, and now the kurds have been particularly affected. and commissioner that it should be clear to us what is happening. i mean you said that we are the largest donors. where is the money going? the right to self-determination is a fundamental right. deciding that you can be free and independent is a fundamental right that needs to be clear to all of us. women need to be protected. women have to have rights because otherwise the situation will continue to be that you've won the war, mr. al sharab, but not the peace. >> thank you, mr. clausen. >> thank you. i'm speaking danish. in syria, young kurdish women have been thrown out of the top of buildings by jihadist fighters. a lot of isis detainees were let out early. unfortunately, fear has spread amongst the minorities of the country. now, there's a truce which is good and it needs to be properly observed. but unfortunately, basic needs aren't being met. medicine, food. we're hearing of hundreds of thousands of people suffering and falling ill because of dirty water. now, for syria to become a country for all its citizens, turkey needs to stop interfering. we need to work for that. we need to exert pressure for that. we need to exert pressure on syria to ensure that it really provides proper protection for its minorities. thank >> thank you, mr. maz. >> president, commissioner, colleagues, the situation in northeast syria remains tense. we welcome the extension of the ceasefire between the syrian government troops and the syrian democratic forces, but at the moment it seems that we're just trying to avoid more escalation and to avoid a security vacuum in that region which could be used by revanchist groups uh those loyal to former president bashar al-assad or yes. now, the fight against terrorism doesn't just mean arresting people and putting them in prison. we need a proper mechanism to ensure that people stay in prisons. local support uh excuse me, international support for local partners needs to be continued. otherwise, local forces will be left alone to deal with radicals. it seems to me that uh the government of syria, the kurdish government, etc., etc., need to be given incentives to respect minorities, to ensure that humanitarian corridors are respected, and all of that needs to be done to ensure peace and security in the northeast of syria as soon as possible. >> mo. >> thank you, mr. jalum. >> good evening. uh five months ago, we led a mission uh the first one to syria to witness the country's transition. we spoke with organizations, communities, civilians, syrians who regardless their religion or background asked for one simple thing, the stability and peace. after years of brutal alitarianism, that is the least they deserve. the images from january are terrifying. cruelty, persecution, terrorism, and the displacement of hundreds of ci civilians in northern syria. and this remind us of a past which we must never return to. courts do not deserve this. alawite sunnis and arabs and christians do not deserve this. in short, syrians who have fought for a better country do not deserve this. we call for an absolute commitment to equality for all syrians. and for sure, we condemn violence. we demand the transitional government to guarantee a ceasefire and to continue the path of political and legal recognition for all peoples as it did with the decree 13 on kurdish recognition. syrian democracy will only be achieved with all voices included and with full territorial integrity. respect for human rights is the only path for the european union support. thank you very much. mr. teresa, >> thank you. at the heart of any lasting peace in syria lies the protection of its ethnic and religious minorities. syria is not a monocultural state. it is a civilization shaped over centuries by coexistence and plurality of multiple communities. alawitis, drews, kurish, yazidi, assyrian, armenian, and ancient christian communities continue to endure targeted killing, abduction, force displaced with religious persecution and the systemic destruction of their secret sites. after decades of authoritarian rules and 14 years of devastating civil war, syria remains fractured by power vacuums that extremists actors have been quick to exploit. the ceasefire established in late january offer a moment of cautious hope, but it remains fragile and incomplete. protection protecting minority is therefore not only a moral obligation. it is a security imperative for syria. syria's future must recognize a fundamental truth of its history. its unity and power stands in diversity, not in uniformity. no community should ever be sacrificed for a false vision of unity. thank you anna. >> mrs. anna miranda pass now please. >> i'd like to welcome the kurdish representatives who are up there. the kurds can wait no longer. turkey is letting them be massacred at kabani. and what's the european union doing? nothing. when we were we needed people to fight islamic state, the kurds stood up and did it for us. they defeated isis. but basically, syria has become a battlefield for various external powers who want to exploit its resources to the detriment of its peoples. we need to sanction entities and individuals. and we need to ensure that humanitarian corridors are working properly to help people who are in areas under siege particularly rajava. we would also like to see recognition for humanitarian organizations and also recognition of the rights of women. there are democratic systems in rojava that we want to see repeated elsewhere. we continue to work to ensure that syria recognizes the pe rights of kurdish people. thank you very much. throughout history, the kurds have been betrayed by their friends on various occasions. this must not happen again. they have paid a huge price fighting the islamic state. thousands gave their lives not just for their freedom, but for ours. women managed to have freedoms that they didn't have in many other parts of the region. and the dream was that different languages, cultures, ethnic groups could coexist. all of this now is under threat. and it's our responsibility to ensure that we actually have kurdish autonomy. we need to put the damascus government under pressure uh because we really have to ensure that rahava is protected and the rights of minorities are protected too if not no help. thank you. >> mrs. nerdova, please. >> a ceasefire was signed in syria on 30th of january. any pause in fighting is welcomed, but a ceasefire alone doesn't mean safety for civilians. in recent months, across parts of syria, civilians, including kurds and other minorities face insecurity, intimidation, and serious human rights abuses even after the ceasefire, fear remains widespread. this is a human rights crisis that should concern europe. kurdish forces played a big role in defeating isis and as their position weakens, security on the ground becomes more fragile, increasing risk for civilians and regional stability. europe must stand clearly on the side of human dignity. protecting minorities and defending basic rights must be the central to any engagement on syria. uh thank you ty royon. >> thank you mr. roen. now >> thank you president commissioner colleagues. this could have been the year in which syria finally saw an end to the bloodshed and the start of transition to democracy building accountable institutions restoring justice and recognizing rights of all citizens. but the ongoing siege of kobani and atrocities also on january 9th against courts in aleppo and their forced displacement tell a different story. a small bright spot may be the agreement between damascus and the sdf now. but the process of gradual integration must come with full rights for and protection of kurdish citizens. real stability can only come with respect for all minorities. courts, drews, alawitis, christians and others with peaceful coexistence between these communities based on principles of transitional justice. and europe cannot impose this. but we must make our financial support conditional. being the largest humanitarian donor is not enough. if we are bystanders, fragile stability may once again collapse with farreaching security risks. thank you. mr. kadi, please >> the fall of assad didn't bring stability. on the contrary, we went into another dictatorship of extremely islamist. from the beginning, we expressed our worries and unfortunately we were proven right. a few months ago, we had slaughters of christians and alois and then the drews were slaughtered without respecting human rights. today, the governor of lataka decided to forbid the use of makeup for women who are working in the public sector. while a few days ago, we saw a jihadist escaping from the prisons in northeastern syria. at the same time, the kurds are slaughtered by the terrorists of al jolani, cooperating with another terrorist of the area, turkey. the democratic transition and the stability in syria will not come through financing terrorists that are wearing a suit. they saved, they wore a suit, they wore a tie and they pretend that the democrats. the return to syria of all those who escaped from assat regime is a basic precondition for a democratic transition and of stability for stability. thank you nicholas faranis. what a year ago, i was returning from damascus after a personal visit to syria. and among the slaughtering of alawis and christians, i had warned for what was to follow because i had seen with my own eyes what was going on. then europe was silent. europe did not take the necessary measures. not even when we had the bomb attack on the orthodox church of prophet elas. today after the slaughtering of alawis christians of the drews of the yazidis, they are slaughtering kurds. i'm requesting to return the sanctions to i demand to stop the financing if the attacks do not stop against ethnic or religious communities and if the country directly does not move into democratic elections with representative constitution for all the communities of mrs. president, >> president commissioner, we have a whole community living in fear, the kurds, who were a vital link in fighting is in spite of the ceasefire. the massacres in 2325 of drews and alawites are still in our memories. we can't have this fight against the minorities in syria. in the last report of the migration agency, it explains that persecution of christians is is rare. but what we are seeing is communities being uh being uh rubbed out, people being kidnapped. rare h france has heard of 9,000 people who have been detained without a fair trial and who are persecuted to an extent of justifying asylum as long as they are no longer members of isis. europe is unfortunately acting as though we were still in the last century. the executioners have uh have changed their image and it means that we really have to decide a in europe are we going to support former terrorists or christians? thank you, president, commissioner, colleagues. syria freed itself from the criminal dictatorship of bashar al-assad, but it hasn't freed itself from violence, which continues to blight the lives of citizens. we are seeing a humanitarian crisis. now, we're concerned with the northeast of syria. kurdish communities have had self- autonomy for a long time and they are fighting for democratic uh self governance and this is important. now the problems in the country will only be dealt with politically and institutionally. the european union therefore needs to support a sustainable cease fire. we also need to insist that there be no human rights violations. what europe can't do is fund the reconstruction of the country if it means the destruction of various communities, particularly those who have constantly fought for the values and human rights that inspire us. northeast syria needs to be seen as the basis for the future syria. we need to see peaceful cohabitation and we need to see fundamental rights guaranteed for all communities. anything else will lead to violence. thank you. mr. frag now please >> moment of being frozen the politicians are frozen internationally the west after turkish instructions is supporting the jihadist in the leadership of syria and behind the scene everybody's frozen on the scene one sees hypocrisy everybody's a hypocrite accompllices real criminals all those who know but are silent christians were 12% of syria 15 years ago. today they're just 2%. our brothers are being murdered, are being uh raped. they've been persecuted every day. in june, 25 greek orthodox people were murdered. during uh uh their mass in prophet ilas and the right hand so the left the jihadist said that the attack was done by the islamic state and the jihadist terrorists who cut heads from syria should be sent away election should take place syria has no government but it has the members of a christian courts and duses are persecuted and we support them we shouldn't be silent anymore thank you ben, >> mrs. benjamin benjam, please. >> thank you, president commissioner. the news that we're getting from syria and the numbers of people who have been killed, expelled, or whatever are terrible. we're seeing extreme violence, particularly against minorities. and in that context, christians are once again being persecuted and massacred. one and a half million christians were in syria before the war started. there are now 300,000 left. persecutions and killings which have increased during the last year as terrorists and fundamentalists have taken more territory. and the result is that syria has now joined the list of countries where there extreme is extreme persecution against christians. the fall of the dictatorship and the change of regime in syria generated great expectations. but we can only measure the supposed changes if we genuinely work to ensure that there is a state where there is religious freedom, where women's rights are everywhere and where there's no discrimination for sexual orientation based on sexual orientation, race or whatever. and when you have a justice system that deals with those who carry out violence, currently they're acting with impunity. and what's the european union going to do? are we going to keep sending money without asking for results? >> thank you, mrs. strada. >> thank you, president commissioner. we cannot uh avoid uh the reality that we are regarding in looking in silence while the forces of the armies advancing in northern syria. we are closing. [snorts] we have abandoned the kurds to their fate. the kurds who fought against um isis. the kurds who have put together an feminist ecological uh government together and we are losing credibility in the eyes of the crude kurds in the whole region and if we want bottomup democracy there are some things we can do. we can open up humanitarian corridors and monitor the ceasefire. we can introduce uh conditionality of human rights uh in our relations with uh syria and we need to uh the lives of tens of thousands of people are are at stake here. we cannot leave them to their fate. thank you. >> mr. russia now please. >> thank you uh pres president colleagues the kurds feel betrayed in the fight against i is we let them do our work for us but now that sharah has come to power the eu and the us are just leaving them there to rot. now, al-shar uh speaks sweet words regarding m minorities, but in reality, the kurds, the christians, the alawants are in fear of their lives, and that's understandable given what's happened in the past few months. the eu cannot sit with its on its hands. enough beautiful words. we need real guarantees of financial support for minorities. their rights need to be protected and our support mustn't be for jihadi militias. that sort of guarantee need to uh the support needs to go in the right direction. thank you, mr. mafes, please. the alsh jihadist regime, the islamic state, and the turkish state. the war crimes carried out by this evil alliance are well documented by information from the ground. testimonies and regional reports against specific population groups based on their ethnic and religious identities. war crimes such as targeting of civilian areas, destruction of infrastructure, executions, torture, the secretion of cemeteries, buring of the corpses of the dead, killing of children, abductions, for disappearances, and much more, and release of isis criminals. turkish participation in central and self-evident turkish artillery, turkish drones, turkish speaking military, same turkish tactics as elsewhere. the kurds and indigenous people of mesopotamia that sacrificed 12,000 fighters in the fight against the islamic state is abandoned again. this is a shameful immorality and a horrible geopolitical mistake. madame commissioner, when any eu official will meet the damascu jihadist regime for funding a collaboration, not in my name and most likely not in the name of this house. carlo, mr. >> thank you very much. the situation in northeast surah is still dramatic with violence against kurdish civilians, humanitarian crisis particularly affecting minorities, women, christians, children. for decades, syria was the only arab state state with a socialist secular type government. and now it has many minorities, christians, kurds, alawites, jews, and so on and so forth. with the choice of political islam in 2011, devastating civil war started, a multicultural war which led to fragmentation. now, the eu should actually support a genuine ceasefire, a verifiable ceasefire, guaranteeing protection to minorities and stopping terrorist repression. the west has to be able to make responsible choices, avoiding the errors of the past and contributing genuine genuinely to peace and stability in the region. thank you very much. now peace cannot be based on weapons. we cannot have peace without inclusion. we need the ceasefire agreement to be properly implemented because any violation of the cease the ceasefire means no access to health care etc. uh etc. and just more suffering for the civilian population. we need to see the political organization across the country include everyone. there's no democracy without the votes of everyone. in addition, we have the prisons which are holding former isis fighters and that's something that's extremely important for syria but also for the world. so that needs to be dealt with too. democracy and security go hand in hand. we need to help syria to achieve a brighter and more democratic future. assistance needs to be provided to help them build peace. thank you. >> dear colleagues, the situation in syria is fragile and complex. first, especially in northeast of syria, un reports that more than 170,000 displaced people need humanitarian assistance. second, another big issue are the detention camps like in alro or in alul. i had the chance to visit an austrian woman with her two children in the camp alro. over 28,000 people are in these camps. 8,000 are foreigners. and we have to have security in our minds. many of the people are brainwashed by isis. and third, we have to see the situation, the difficult situation of the kurdish people, the largest, by far largest minority in syria with more than two million people. kurds have played a big uh and a key role in the fight against the terrorists of isis. we should not forget this and the rights and security must be ensured. what we need is a sustainable ceasefire. a ceasefire that ensures security, the respect of international law and the protection of civilians. we have to support the syrian government but we have to be also on alert. thank you. >> thank you. and now colleagues we have the catch the eye. i will give priority to the people who have followed the debate uh all the time. i start with mark bena for one minute. yes. thank you. thank you, president. i want to point out the elephant in the room because you've mentioned sovereignty of syria, but no one here condemned the fact that israel wiped out the entire syrian military infrastructure taking advantage of the regime change. no one here is condemning the fact that the united states still have troops in syria and they should withdraw. otherwise, we cannot speak of sovereignty. no one here dares to speak about the territorial integrity. why? why can we not say that the israeli troops that are illegally occupying parts of syria should withdraw? and then look at the kurds. the kurds celebrated in 2015 as the forces that were fighting isis da with they got us support. the us took advantage of it to establish military bases in the rich oil rich regions of syria. today they can be killed. they can be killed because now we support the other leader. they're learning basically what some us analysts already said. being an enemy of the us may be dangerous. being its friend is fatal. if this is true for europe as well, we are ashamed. okay. well, we have for a long time defended turkish interests in syria. uh and uh the syrian government is now trying to destroy the kurds. all the allies of the kurds have now washed their hands of them and basically allowed the syrian government to do what they want. what we're seeing is just going to lead to further violence and particularly against the kurdish minority. so, i hope that we'll be doing everything possible to try and ensure that there's not more conflict and that the rights of minorities are respected. we want to see northeast syria return to normal life. but this is has been a black time. i don't think we'll be able to uh forget the fact that the eu has allowed the terrorists to massacre the kurds. thank you, >> sebastian tinkenan. >> mr. tinken. >> thank you, mr. president. religious cleansing is underway in northeast syria. after bashar al-assad's fall, we were promised a new syria. however, the extrajudicial executions, destruction of property, and deliberate attacks carried out by extremist islamist groups in the syrian transitional government speak a climate of open religious hostility. this is unacceptable. the kurdish people have been among our most reliable partners in the fight against isis. they have defended not only their freedom, but europe's security as well. yet the silence in europe is defending. europe must stand for clear principles. the protection of civilians and zero tolerance for terrorism. the syrian transitional government that engages in ethnic and religious violence must not be granted legitimacy. thank you. >> thank you. costas papadakis, >> mr. papadakis. 15 years of imperilastic intervention in we don't have any excuses that were used by the europe by europe and nato and all the greek government supporting this intervention till today liberators and bringing democracy supposedly. the exterrorists today are jihadist friends of nato and they were supported with guns and money. the european union, turkey and the united states and israel and israel is occupying syrian territory. refugees were created in syria and now the kurds are refugees and the united states after taking advantage of the kurds they betrayed them. everything for competitiveness o of united states fighting china and russia for competitiveness and vying for uh energy resources. the people of syria could break this circle by struggling for its own interests against any imperialist uh co coalition. >> mr. deeper last speaker. >> thank you, mr. vice president. dear people of europe, one month after the regime change in syria, i had the opportunity to travel through northern syria. and i had a meeting with maslim abdi, the commander-in-chief of the sdf of the predominantly kurdish forces that are now fighting with the central government. and one thing that uh i remember till this day is the wall of memorablia that um the commander-in-chief of the sdf had uh in this meeting room. he had um uh tokens of remembrance from his collaboration with the cia, with the russians, with the israelis, with the germans, even with the turkish. so with many many different nations, many many different organization this people fought together under um changing circum circumstances. i think the question that we have to ask ourself, do we want a syria that keeps on being a playing field for big powers or do we want a syria where we contribute to the peace that the people can actually live there. >> thank you mr. sip. and now madame commissioner shua, you have heard so many views. we wonder what your reaction will be. >> uh thank you uh so much. i was listening carefully. first many of you asked about financing. so i will start with financing controls. all of you know that financing is accompanied by strong controls and conditions. so we are screening all partners, contractors, subcontractors against eu and un sanctions lists. for example, schools for school rehabilitation projects. we use satellite images and we are monitoring to verify that facilities are rebuilt and used for education and not repurposed for military or political use. so the commission applies strict safeguards on to the implementation of the european union funds. we have monitoring programs including regular reports from implementing partners in local verification missions but also resultsoriented monitoring exercises. so the european union funds will not be channeled via transitional government but the transitional authorities are closely involved and consulted a and they are one of the key beneficiaries through capacity building. so for the time being the commission will work with implementing partners on the ground who are as you know first implementing far partner were united nation and member state agencies who are present on the ground but also civil society organizations. so every eur euro is controlled and can be withdrawn immediately. this is about financing. on some other issues. i will try to reply but it's not possible to reply to all of you. so we are european union is closely monitoring the situation in aleppo and northeast syria including through our delegation in damascus and we remain vigilant about respect for human rights and international humanitarian law. we will continue supporting a peaceful and truly inclusive transition. when i say inclusive, i mean inclusive and also national reconciliation which is uh very important also to reply to some of you to mr. sanchez amore he's we are advocating for a genuinely inclusive political transition but to for this to happen we need we need integration of military security and civilian institutions into unified state structures alongside meaningful political and local participation which is essential. so the full protection of kurdish rights is also crucial. so we are not interfering, we are accompanying because he said that we are interfering. we are accompanying syrians on their journey to transition. we are supporting the minorities very directly and also through channeling the reforms. for uh madame el salani. i fully agree on the need for functional and real ceasefire and i share her view and view of many of of you whom i heard for the need of protection of kurdish women. uh the kurdish community all of us know is integral part to syria's social fabric and have an important role in building the new syria. uh on some other because many of you left on children freezing. we heard a lot uh our dg echo is providing emergency support including heating and infant supplies when access allows. so the money goes also there just to to understand. so civilian protection is so important and it is interesting in the building of uh civil society to mr. who also left. we he was talking about elites, droos, drews, christians and jews. they need of course to be protected. but i want to thank him for his valuable ideas on federal approach and inclusive society. returning sanctions we that will not help any of these ethnic and religious communities. this will move us back. so we don't think that this is good idea. situation is not frozen. the situation is very fragile with many actors on the scene with the trust among them. we are doing what we can in this context in order to advance peace and stability. to conclude, i think this debate has shown the big concern all of us share here, but it has also shown uh the enormous care and trust for the people of syria. we should continue the work together to help the people of syria whatever our differences can be. they also i think they need our joint and concrete efforts. so i want to thank you for this uh debate. uh just to say that the way damascus handles as sdf integration is a litmos test for the inclusivity of the syrian transition process and it will significantly impact the dynamics between the transitional authorities and the different syrian communities. we will we as the european union will continue to have a structured engagement with the syrian transitional authorities and civil society with the member states. we are eager to reinforce our engagement under a team europe approach. you know, it's not always easy because member states have different bilateral uh positions. um we will also as i said remain engaged bilaterally, regionally and through the global coalition to prevent the resurgence of dash and other extremist groups in syria. preventing dash i think it is all many of you mentioned this. it remains a collective security priority and it is key for ensuring that uh security of for the security of syria for the security of the region but also for the security of europe. thank you so much. >> thank you commissioner for uh your intervention but also for answering the questions raised by colleagues. so, >> thank you very much. we've received a motion for a resolution on the basis of the statement. the debate is concluded and the vote will take place on thursday. >> commission statement. urgent need to address the humanitarian catastrophe in sudan and to achieve a sustainable peace. >> we say hello to commissioner abib. >> commissioner, when you're ready, you have the floor.