# YouTube Video IEwdHp3195c

**视频链接：** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IEwdHp3195c
**字数：** 318 词

---

The main market in the eastern congalles city of GMA is no longer the way it once was. Traders and buyers say commodity prices have surged. Everyone is struggling to make a decent living. The Rwanda backed Congo River alliance and its military wing seized GMA and march of North and South Ku last year. Before we used to buy in bulk at an affordable price. Today, prices have risen sharply and customers hardly buy anything anymore. We're holding on as best as we can, but the situation isn't improving. Banks remain closed and the airport is still not operational. &gt;&gt; The closure of banks and micro finance institutions does not facilitate the circulation of capital and currency. Neither does it make it easier for the economy to return to normal. The rebels are the most powerful of more than 100 armed groups controlling large swads of mineralrich areas in eastern DRC. M23 leaders say they've brought peace and basic services including a stable supply of water and electricity in GMA and some residents agree. &gt;&gt; They have done well on security but we are very hungry. Peace is good. People are sleeping well. The guns are silent, but we don't have food. &gt;&gt; Fighting between government forces, M23 fighters, and other armed groups continues in some areas. The UN says the conflict has displaced millions across eastern DRC. More than 80,000 Congalles recently fled to neighboring Burundi after an escalation of violence in Uvira, South Ku. This is despite peace deals signed by the waring sides with mediation from the US and Qatar and continuing peace efforts led by regional bodies. Those suffering the most are congalles civilians longing for life to return to normal after decades of conflict that never lets up. Katherine Soy Alazer. &gt;&gt; Don't miss out. Get the full picture. Subscribe to Alazer for reliable news and expert insights. Like, share, stay ahead.